(2016). "An international prognostic index for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL-IPI): a meta-analysis of individual patient data." Lancet Oncol 17(6): 779-790.
	BACKGROUND: The management of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia is currently undergoing improvements due to novel therapies and a plethora of biological and genetic variables that add prognostic information to the classic clinical staging systems. We established an international consortium with the aim to create an international prognostic index for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL-IPI) that integrates the major prognostic parameters. METHODS: We used results from a systematic search of the Cochrane Haematological Malignancies Group of MEDLINE, Embase, and Central databases for prospective, clinical phase 2 and 3 trials of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, published between Jan 1, 1950, and Dec 31, 2010, which identified 13 trials. We contacted the principal investigators of these 13 trials, of which eight agreed to include individual patient data. We used the individual patient data from these phase 3 trials from France, Germany, Poland, the UK, and the USA to create the full analysis dataset. The full analysis dataset was randomly divided, using a random sample procedure, into training and internal-validation datasets. We did a univariate analysis and multivariate analyses using 27 baseline factors and overall survival as an endpoint. We assigned weighted risk scores to each factor included in the final multivariable model. We assessed the discriminatory value using C-statistics and also the validity and reproducibility of the CLL-IPI by subgroup analysis. We used two additional datasets from the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN, USA; MAYO cohort) and the SCALE Scandinavian population-based case-control study (SCAN cohort) as the external-validation datasets. FINDINGS: 3472 treatment-naive patients were included in the full analysis dataset; 2308 were randomly segregated into the training dataset and 1164 into the internal-validation dataset. 838 patients were included in the MAYO cohort and 416 in the SCAN cohort. Median age of patients in the full analysis dataset was 61 years (range 27-86). Five independent prognostic factors were identified in the training dataset: TP53 status (no abnormalities vs del[17p] or TP53 mutation or both), IGHV mutational status (mutated vs unmutated), serum beta2-microglobulin concentration (</=3.5 mg/L vs >3.5 mg/L), clinical stage (Binet A or Rai 0 vs Binet B-C or Rai I-IV), and age (</=65 years vs >65 years). Using a weighted grading of the independent factors, a prognostic index was derived that identified four risk groups within the training dataset with significantly different overall survival at 5 years: low (93.2% [95% CI 90.5-96.0]), intermediate (79.3% [75.5-83.2]), high (63.3% [57.9-68.8]), and very high risk (23.3% [12.5-34.1]; log-rank test comparing survival across the four risk groups p<0.0001; C-statistic, c=0.723 [95% CI 0.684-0.752]). These risk groups were confirmed in the internal-validation and external-validation datasets. INTERPRETATION: The CLL-IPI combines genetic, biochemical, and clinical parameters into a prognostic model, discriminating four prognostic subgroups. The CLL-IPI will allow a more targeted management of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia in clinical practice and in trials testing novel drugs. FUNDING: Jose Carreras Leukaemia Foundation.

(2016). "Protocol for analyses of adverse event data from randomized controlled trials of statin therapy." Am Heart J 176: 63-69.
	The Cholesterol Treatment Trialists' (CTT) Collaboration was originally established to conduct individual participant data meta-analyses of major vascular events, cause-specific mortality, and site-specific cancers in large, long-term, randomized trials of statin therapy (and other cholesterol-modifying treatments). The results of the trials of statin therapy and their associated meta-analyses have shown that statins significantly reduce the risk of major vascular events without any increase in the risk of nonvascular causes of death or of site-specific cancer, but do produce small increases in the incidence of myopathy, diabetes, and, probably, hemorrhagic stroke. The CTT Collaboration has not previously sought data on other outcomes, and so a comprehensive meta-analysis of all adverse events recorded in each of the eligible trials has not been conducted. This protocol prospectively describes plans to extend the CTT meta-analysis data set so as to provide a more complete understanding of the nature and magnitude of any other effects of statin therapy.

(2018). "The association between blood pressure variability (BPV) with dementia and cognitive function: a systematic review and meta-analysis protocol." Syst Rev 7(1): 163.
	BACKGROUND: A body of empirical work demonstrates that wide fluctuations in a person's blood pressure across consecutive measures, known as blood pressure variability (BPV), hold prognostic value to predict stroke and transient ischemic attack. However, the magnitude of association between BPV and other neurological outcomes remains less clear. This systematic review aims to pool together data regarding BPV with respect to incident dementia, cognitive impairment, and cognitive function. METHODS: Electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, and SCOPUS) will be searched for the key words blood pressure variability and outcomes of dementia, cognitive impairment, and cognitive function. Authors and reference lists of included studies will also be contacted to identify additional published and unpublished studies. Eligibility criteria are as follows: population-adult humans (over 18 years but with no upper age limit) without dementia at baseline, with or without elevated blood pressure, or from hypertensive populations (systolic blood pressure >/= 140 mmHg and/or diastolic blood pressure >/= 90 mmHg or use of antihypertensive drug for hypertension) and from primary care, community cohort, electronic database registry, or randomized controlled trial (RCT); exposure-any metric of BPV (systolic, diastolic or both) over any duration; comparison-persons without dementia who do not have elevated BPV; and outcome-dementia, cognitive impairment, cognitive function at follow-up from standardized neurological assessment, or cognitive testing. Article screening will be undertaken by two independent reviewers with disagreements resolved through discussion. Data extraction will include original data specified as hazard ratios, odds ratios, correlations, regression coefficients, and original cell data if available. Risk of bias assessment will be undertaken by two independent reviewers. Meta-analytic methods will be used to synthesize the data collected relating to the neurological outcomes with Comprehensive Meta-Analysis Version 2.0 (Biostat Inc., Engelwood, NJ). DISCUSSION: This systematic review aims to clarify whether BPV is associated with elevated risk for dementia, cognitive impairment, and cognitive function. An evaluation of the etiological links between BPV with incident dementia might inform evidence-based clinical practice and policy concerning blood pressure measurement and hypertension management. The review will identify sources of heterogeneity and may inform decisions on whether it is feasible and desirable to proceed with an individual participant data meta-analysis. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42017081977.

(2018). "Corrigendum to Effects of alteplase for acute stroke according to criteria defining the European Union and United States marketing authorizations: Individual-patient- data meta-analysis of randomized trials." Int J Stroke 13(2): Np3.
	
Aguiar, P. N., Jr., et al. (2018). "Cost-effectiveness of Osimertinib in the First-Line Treatment of Patients With EGFR-Mutated Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer." JAMA Oncol 4(8): 1080-1084.
	Importance: The survival of patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene mutations has improved substantially in the last decade with the development of targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Osimertinib, a third-generation TKI that is approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of patients who develop EGFR T790M mutations, has recently shown improved clinical outcomes compared with gefitinib and erlotinib for treatment-naive patients. Objective: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of osimertinib for the first-line treatment of patients with EGFR-mutated NSCLC. Design, Setting, and Participants: For this cost-effectiveness analysis, we extracted individual patient data from the FLAURA randomized clinical trial and used findings of our earlier meta-analysis to develop a decision-analytic model and determine the cost-effectiveness of osimertinib (AZD9291) compared with first- and second-generation EGFR-TKIs over a 10-year time horizon. All direct costs were based on US and Brazilian payer perspectives. Main Outcomes and Measures: The main outcome of this study was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) expressed as cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained by using osimertinib compared with first- or second-generation EGFR-TKIs in previously untreated EGFR-mutated NSCLC. Results: In the base case using the data as reported in the FLAURA trial, the incremental QALY for osimertinib was 0.594 compared with the first- and second-generation EGFR-TKIs. In the United States, the osimertinib ICERs were $226527 vs erlotinib, $231123 vs gefitinib, and $219874 vs afatinib. In Brazil, the ICERs were $162329, $180804, and $175432, respectively. The overall survival (95% CI) reported in the FLAURA trial (hazard ratio, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.45-0.88) had the strongest association with the ICER (ranging from $84342 to $859771). Osimertinib price adjustments to the FLAURA trial data improved cost-effectiveness. For example, a discount of 10% on osimertinib acquisition cost was associated with a 20% decreased ICER compared with the base case ICER, and a discount of 20% on osimertinib acquisition cost was associated with a 40% decreased ICER compared with the base case ICER. Conclusions and Relevance: At current costs, by World Health Organization cost-effectiveness threshold criteria, osimertinib is not cost-effective for first-line therapy of EGFR-mutated NSCLC in either the United States or Brazil.

Aibana, O., et al. (2019). "Vitamin D status and risk of incident tuberculosis disease: A nested case-control study, systematic review, and individual-participant data meta-analysis." PLoS Med 16(9): e1002907.
	BACKGROUND: Few studies have evaluated the association between preexisting vitamin D deficiency and incident tuberculosis (TB). We assessed the impact of baseline vitamins D levels on TB disease risk. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We assessed the association between baseline vitamin D and incident TB in a prospective cohort of 6,751 HIV-negative household contacts of TB patients enrolled between September 1, 2009, and August 29, 2012, in Lima, Peru. We screened for TB disease at 2, 6, and 12 months after enrollment. We defined cases as household contacts who developed TB disease at least 15 days after enrollment of the index patient. For each case, we randomly selected four controls from among contacts who did not develop TB disease, matching on gender and year of age. We also conducted a one-stage individual-participant data (IPD) meta-analysis searching PubMed and Embase to identify prospective studies of vitamin D and TB disease until June 8, 2019. We included studies that assessed vitamin D before TB diagnosis. In the primary analysis, we defined vitamin D deficiency as 25-(OH)D < 50 nmol/L, insufficiency as 50-75 nmol/L, and sufficiency as >75nmol/L. We estimated the association between baseline vitamin D status and incident TB using conditional logistic regression in the Lima cohort and generalized linear mixed models in the meta-analysis. We further defined severe vitamin D deficiency as 25-(OH)D < 25 nmol/L and performed stratified analyses by HIV status in the IPD meta-analysis. In the Lima cohort, we analyzed 180 cases and 709 matched controls. The adjusted odds ratio (aOR) for TB risk among participants with baseline vitamin D deficiency compared to sufficient vitamin D was 1.63 (95% CI 0.75-3.52; p = 0.22). We included seven published studies in the meta-analysis and analyzed 3,544 participants. In the pooled analysis, the aOR was 1.48 (95% CI 1.04-2.10; p = 0.03). The aOR for severe vitamin D deficiency was 2.05 (95% CI 0.87-4.87; p trend for decreasing 25-(OH)D levels from sufficient vitamin D to severe deficiency = 0.02). Among 1,576 HIV-positive patients, vitamin D deficiency conferred a 2-fold (aOR 2.18, 95% CI 1.22-3.90; p = 0.01) increased risk of TB, and the aOR for severe vitamin D deficiency compared to sufficient vitamin D was 4.28 (95% CI 0.85-21.45; p = 0.08). Our Lima cohort study is limited by the short duration of follow-up, and the IPD meta-analysis is limited by the number of possible confounding covariates available across all studies. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest vitamin D predicts TB disease risk in a dose-dependent manner and that the risk of TB disease is highest among HIV-positive individuals with severe vitamin D deficiency. Randomized control trials are needed to evaluate the possible role of vitamin D supplementation on reducing TB disease risk.

Allemann, S. S., et al. (2017). "Congruence between patient characteristics and interventions may partly explain medication adherence intervention effectiveness: an analysis of 190 randomized controlled trials from a Cochrane systematic review." J Clin Epidemiol 91: 70-79.
	OBJECTIVES: Due to the negative outcomes of medication nonadherence, interventions to improve adherence have been the focus of countless studies. The congruence between adherence-related patient characteristics and interventions may partly explain the variability of effectiveness in medication adherence studies. In their latest update of a Cochrane review reporting inconsistent effects of adherence interventions, the authors offered access to their database for subanalysis. We aimed to use this database to assess congruence between adherence-related patient characteristics and interventions and its association with intervention effects. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: We developed a congruence score consisting of six features related to inclusion criteria, patient characteristics at baseline, and intervention design. Two independent raters extracted and scored items from the 190 studies available in the Cochrane database. We correlated overall congruence score and individual features with intervention effects regarding adherence and clinical outcomes using Kruskal-Wallis rank sum test and Fisher's exact test. RESULTS: Interrater reliability for newly extracted data was almost perfect with a Cohen's Kappa of 0.92 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.89-0.94; P < 0.001]. Although present in only six studies, the inclusion of nonadherent patients was the single feature significantly associated with effective adherence interventions (P = 0.003). Moreover, effective adherence interventions were significantly associated with improved clinical outcomes (odds ratio = 6.0; 95% CI = 3.1-12.0; P < 0.0001). However, neither the overall congruence score nor any other individual feature (i.e., "determinants of nonadherence as inclusion criteria," "tailoring of interventions to the inclusion criteria," "reasons for nonadherence assessed at baseline," "adjustment of intervention to individual patient needs," and "theory-based interventions") was significantly associated with intervention effects. CONCLUSION: The presence of only six studies that included nonadherent patients and the interdependency of this feature with the remaining five might preclude a conclusive assessment of congruence between patient characteristics and adherence interventions. In order to obtain clinical benefits from effective adherence interventions, we encourage researchers to focus on the inclusion of nonadherent patients.

Andermann, E., et al. (2018). "Psychiatric and cognitive adverse events: A pooled analysis of three phase III trials of adjunctive eslicarbazepine acetate for partial-onset seizures." Epilepsy Behav 82: 119-127.
	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the nature and incidence of psychiatric and cognitive adverse events (AEs) reported with eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) used as adjunctive treatment for refractory partial-onset seizures (POS) in adults. METHODS: This was a post-hoc analysis of data pooled from three randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trials (BIA-2093-301, -302, -304). After an 8-week baseline period, patients received placebo or adjunctive ESL 400mg (studies 301 and 302 only), 800mg, or 1200mg once daily (QD) for 14weeks (2-week titration period, 12-week maintenance period). Psychiatric and cognitive AEs were identified from individual patient data. Suicidality was also evaluated using the Columbia-Classification Algorithm of Suicide Assessment (C-CASA), or the Columbia-Suicide Severity Rating Scale (C-SSRS). P-values were obtained using the chi-square test of independence or Fisher's exact test, without correcting for multiplicity. RESULTS: The analysis population included 1447 patients (ESL, n=1021; placebo, n = 426). Psychiatric treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) occurred in 10.8% of patients receiving ESL, and in a comparable proportion (10.3%) of patients receiving placebo (p=0.802). The incidence of depression and suicidality-related TEAEs was higher for ESL (7.4%) vs. placebo (3.8%) (p=0.009). The occurrence of these TEAEs differed between treatment groups (p = 0.010), but there was no notable trend between increasing ESL dose and increasing incidence of depression and suicidality-related TEAEs. Aggression/hostility-related TEAEs occurred in <0.1% of patients taking ESL vs. 0.9% taking placebo. The incidence of cognitive TEAEs was higher for ESL (7.1%) vs. placebo (4.0%) (p=0.023); incidences of memory impairment, attention disturbance, apathy, and aphasia were higher for ESL 1200mg than for other treatment groups. Incidences of psychiatric and cognitive serious AEs (SAEs) were 0.6% and 0.2% with ESL, and 0.5% and 0% with placebo, respectively. Psychiatric and cognitive TEAEs leading to discontinuation occurred in 1.9% and 1.4% of patients taking ESL, and 0.7% and 0.5% taking placebo, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: In phase III clinical trials of adjunctive ESL for treatment-refractory POS, psychiatric and cognitive TEAEs were reported infrequently with ESL and placebo. The incidences of depression and suicidality-related TEAEs and of cognitive TEAEs were higher for patients taking ESL vs. placebo. Incidences of psychiatric and cognitive SAEs, and TEAEs leading to discontinuation, were low with ESL and placebo.

Apostolidis, A. (2015). "Antimuscarinics in the Treatment of OAB: Is there a First-Line and a Second-Line Choice?" Curr Drug Targets 16(11): 1187-1197.
	Antimuscarinics are currently the mainstay of pharmacotherapy of the overactive bladder (OAB) syndrome. Several meta-analyses have confirmed their efficacy in comparison with placebo, although the clinical significance of differences in parameters recorded in clinical trials has been questioned. Trials examining the effect of antimuscarinics on outcomes which matter to the patients, such as subjective cure/improvement rates, quality of life parameters and cost-effectiveness are relatively limited. Also, comparative studies between the various available drugs have been designed to support the registration requirements and rarely provide information critical for a physician who needs to assess the best first-line choice for the specific patient, or even a second-line management. Data which might be useful for clinicians who would embark on tailoring the management of OAB for the individual patient could be found in systematic reviews/meta-analyses, cost-effectiveness studies and studies investigating the patients' adherence to treatment and persistence with pharmacotherapy for OAB. In addition, patient co-morbidities and concurrent treatments should be taken into consideration in conjunction with the safety profile of each antimuscarinic. Available evidence suggests that the use of ER formulations of antimuscarinics is favoured over the IR formulations when concerning best balance between efficacy and adverse events, cost-effectiveness, adherence and persistence with treatment.

Aronow, W. S. and T. A. Shamliyan (2018). "Comparative Clinical Outcomes of Edoxaban in Adults With Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation." Am J Ther.
	BACKGROUND: A critical appraisal of all pooled evidence regarding novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) for stroke prevention regardless of publication status or study design has not been conducted yet. Being the latest addition to NOACs, the data on edoxaban are especially scarce. STUDY QUESTION: What are the comparative clinical outcomes of edoxaban versus warfarin and other NOACs apixaban, dabigatran, or rivaroxaban in adults with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation? DATA SOURCES: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs), observational studies, and network meta-analyses were identified in PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, Pharmapendium, Elsevier Clinical Pharmacology, and the clinicaltrials.gov trial registry in June 2018. STUDY DESIGN: Rapid review per a priori developed protocol, direct frequentist random-effects meta-analysis of aggregate data, grading the quality of evidence per the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation working group approach. RESULTS: Direct 4 RCTs (23,021 patients) suggest that edoxaban is noninferior to warfarin in prevention of stroke and systemic embolism [pooled relative risk (RR): 0.65, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.23-1.81, 2 RCTs] and reduces the risk of cardiovascular mortality (RR: 0.87, 95% CI: 0.78-0.97, 1 RCT), major cardiovascular morbidity (RR: 0.90, 95% CI: 0.82-0.98, 2 RCTs), and major bleeding events (RR: 0.80, 95% CI: 0.71-0.91, 1 RCT) but increases the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding (RR: 1.21, 95% CI: 1.01-1.46, 1 RCT) and anemia (RR: 1.45, 95% CI: 1.05-1.99, 3 RCTs). Edoxaban is superior to warfarin in patients with increased risk of bleeding with warfarin because of variants in CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genes. Indirect evidence does not allow valid conclusions regarding comparative superiority of NOACs. The quality of evidence was downgraded because of reporting bias, small number of events, and indirectness in comparisons. CONCLUSIONS: Edoxaban is a welcome addition to the NOAC's armamentarium. However, the comparative data with other novel NOACs are mostly nonexisting, and urgently needed for better individual patient assessment.

Arthurs, G., et al. (2015). "The effectiveness of therapeutic patient education on adherence to oral anti-cancer medicines in adult cancer patients in ambulatory care settings: a systematic review." JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep 13(5): 244-292.
	BACKGROUND: Adherence to oral cancer medicines is a challenge for adult patients with cancer. Education specifically tailored for an individual patient with cancer may improve adherence. Therapeutic patient education when utilized effectively may maximize health outcomes and positively affect the quality of life of adult patients with cancer. Currently, there are no published systematic reviews specific to the effectiveness of therapeutic patient education on improvement of oral anti-cancer medicines adherence in patients with cancer. OBJECTIVES: To synthesize the best available evidence on the effectiveness of therapeutic patient education on adherence to oral anti-cancer medicines in adult cancer patients 18 years and older in an ambulatory care setting. INCLUSION CRITERIA: Types of participants: This review considered studies involving adults of any ethnicity, race or gender, aged 18 years or older who were diagnosed with any form of cancer, receiving oral anti-cancer medicines in an ambulatory care setting. Types of intervention(s): This review considered studies on the use of therapeutic patient education as the additional intervention to routine patient education for promoting oral anti-cancer medicine adherence in adult patients with cancer in an ambulatory care setting. Routine patient education was considered as a comparator. Types of outcomes: The outcome considered was adherence to prescribed oral anti-cancer medicines. Types of studies: This review considered experimental and observational studies. SEARCH STRATEGY: The literature search included published and unpublished studies in the English Language from 1953 through August 2014. A search of PubMed, CINAHL, Excerpta Medica Database, Academic Search Premier, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, and Health Source: Nursing/Academic Edition was conducted using identified keywords and indexed terms across all included databases. A search for grey literature and electronic hand searching of relevant journals was also performed. METHODOLOGICAL QUALITY: Two reviewers independently evaluated the included studies for methodological quality utilizing standardized critical appraisal instruments from the Joanna Briggs Institute. DATA COLLECTION: Standardized data extraction tools were used by two reviewers independently as per the Joanna Briggs Institute for data extraction. DATA SYNTHESIS: Due to clinical and methodological heterogeneity between the included studies, statistical meta-analysis was not feasible. The results are presented in a narrative form. RESULTS: Two studies were included in this review, one randomized controlled trial and one cohort study. Both studies had small sample sizes and were moderate and low quality. The clinical significance of therapeutic patient education interventions and the relationship between behavior changes and health outcome changes remain unclear. The randomized clinical trial found a benefit in medication adherence rates in the tailored education intervention group compared to the standard education group at two and four months. Adherence rates measured by self-report (91.3% and 95.1%) and pharmacy refill rates (80% and 73.7%) were superior for the intervention group; however pharmacy refill rates were lower than self-reports of adherence. Tailored educational interventions were only beneficial on pharmacy refill rates (p=.0048) for promoting adherence at the two-month time interval. The cohort study found the intensified pharmaceutical educational intervention group demonstrated enhanced overall medication adherence then the standard education group (97.9% vs. 90.5%, p=0.069). The intervention group also showed a higher mean daily adherence to medication (96. 8% vs. 87.2%, p=0.029). The relative risk of the intervention group deviating from the medication intake interval of 12 hours was 0.51(95%CI, 0.46-0.56) compared to the control group (p<0.05, Chi-square test).The two studies showed no statistically significant differences, only modest to low evidence that therapeutic educational interventions support the clinical outcome of oral anti-cancer medicine adherence. CONCLUSIONS: There is a paucity of research evidence on the effectiveness of therapeutic patient educational interventions for improving patient adherence to oral cancer medicines. The effect of therapeutic patient educational interventions on oral anti-cancer medicine adherence has yet to be determined. Therapeutic patient educational interventions remain questionable, differing in format and educational strategies. A specific standardized methodology and evaluation approach to therapeutic patient education may reduce symptomatology, prevent side effects, maximize health outcomes and positively affect the quality of life and survival of adult patients with cancer. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: There is limited evidence that therapeutic patient educational interventions improve oral anti-cancer medicine adherence in adult patients with cancer in ambulatory care settings. A growing number of patients with cancer are being prescribed oral anti-cancer medicines; a better understanding of how therapeutic patient education strategies are effectively implemented may promote patient self-motivation and oral anti-cancer medicine adherence. This review recommends the development of a specific standardized methodology and evaluation approach to therapeutic patient education that may empower patients to increase their adherence to self-managed medication and achieve positive health outcomes IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH: Clinical trials with larger sample sizes, standardization of content, comparing specific adherence education or tailored education interventions are needed.

Avanecean, D., et al. (2017). "Effectiveness of patient-centered interventions on falls in the acute care setting compared to usual care: a systematic review." JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep 15(12): 3006-3048.
	BACKGROUND: Unintentional falls during hospitalization remain a concern for healthcare institutions globally despite implementation of various improvement strategies. Although the incidence of falls has been of heightened focus for many years and numerous studies have been done evaluating different approaches for fall prevention, fall rates remain high in acute care settings. Patient fall risk scales tend to address only particular intrinsic and extrinsic factors but do not adequately assess a patient's current fall risk status, subsequently warranting more patient-centered risk assessments and interventions. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness of patient-centered interventions on falls in the acute care setting. INCLUSION CRITERIA TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: All adult patients admitted to medical or surgical acute care units for any condition or illness. TYPES OF INTERVENTION(S): Patient-centered intervention strategies to reduce falls compared to usual care. TYPES OF STUDIES: Randomized control trials. TYPES OF OUTCOMES: Primary outcome: fall rates or number of falls. Secondary outcome: fall-related injuries. SEARCH STRATEGY: A comprehensive search strategy aimed to find relevant published and unpublished quantitative, English language studies from the inception of databases through July 30, 2016 was undertaken. Databases searched included: PubMed, CINAHL, Embase and Health Source: Nursing/Academic Edition. A search for unpublished studies was also performed using ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, the New York Academy of Medicine and the Virginia Henderson e-Repository. METHODOLOGICAL QUALITY: Reviewers evaluated the included studies for methodological quality using the standardized critical appraisal instrument form from the Joanna Briggs Institute. DATA EXTRACTION: Quantitative data were extracted from papers included in the review using the standardized data extraction form from the Joanna Briggs Institute. DATA SYNTHESIS: Due to clinical and methodological heterogeneity among the included studies, a meta-analysis was not possible. The findings of this review have been presented in narrative form. RESULTS: Five randomized control trials were included. Three studies demonstrated statistically significant reductions in fall rates (p < 0.04) while two studies showed no difference in fall rates between groups (p > 0.5). In the three studies that demonstrated reduced fall rates, personalized care plans and patient-centered education based on patients' fall risk results were utilized. Three studies measured the secondary outcome of fall-related injuries; however, results demonstrated no difference in fall-related injuries between groups (p > 0.5). CONCLUSIONS: Evidence of this review indicates patient-centered interventions in addition to tailored patient education may have the potential to be effective in reducing falls and fall rates in acute care hospitals. There is limited high quality evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of patient-centered fall prevention interventions so novel solutions are urgently needed and warrant more rigorous, larger scale randomized trials for more robust estimates of effect.

B, H. A. W., et al. (2019). "Mediterranean-style diet in pregnant women with metabolic risk factors (ESTEEM): A pragmatic multicentre randomised trial." PLoS Med 16(7): e1002857.
	BACKGROUND: Pregnant women with metabolic risk factors are at high risk of complications. We aimed to assess whether a Mediterranean-style diet reduces adverse pregnancy outcomes in high-risk women. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted a multicentre randomised trial in 5 maternity units (4 in London and 1 in Birmingham) between 12 September 2014 and 29 February 2016. We randomised inner-city pregnant women with metabolic risk factors (obesity, chronic hypertension, or hypertriglyceridaemia) to a Mediterranean-style diet with high intake of nuts, extra virgin olive oil, fruits, vegetables, nonrefined grains, and legumes; moderate to high consumption of fish; low to moderate intake of poultry and dairy products; low intake of red and processed meat; and avoidance of sugary drinks, fast food, and food rich in animal fat versus usual care. Participants received individualised dietary advice at 18, 20, and 28 weeks' gestation. The primary endpoints were composite maternal (gestational diabetes or preeclampsia) and composite offspring (stillbirth, small for gestational age, or admission to neonatal care unit) outcomes prioritised by a Delphi survey. We used an intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis with multivariable models and identified the stratification variables and prognostic factors a priori. We screened 7,950 and randomised 1,252 women. Baseline data were available for 593 women in the intervention (93.3% follow-up, 553/593) and 612 in the control (95.6% follow-up, 585/612) groups. Over a quarter of randomised women were primigravida (330/1,205; 27%), 60% (729/1,205) were of Black or Asian ethnicity, and 69% (836/1,205) were obese. Women in the intervention arm consumed more nuts (70.1% versus 22.9%; adjusted odds ratio [aOR] 6.8, 95% confidence interval [CI] 4.3-10.6, p </= 0.001) and extra virgin olive oil (93.2% versus 49.0%; aOR 32.2, 95% CI 16.0-64.6, p </= 0.001) than controls; increased their intake of fish (p < 0.001), white meat (p < 0.001), and pulses (p = 0.05); and reduced their intake of red meat (p < 0.001), butter, margarine, and cream (p < 0.001). There was no significant reduction in the composite maternal (22.8% versus 28.6%; aOR 0.76, 95% CI 0.56-1.03, p = 0.08) or composite offspring (17.3% versus 20.9%; aOR 0.79, 95% CI 0.58-1.08, p = 0.14) outcomes. There was an apparent reduction in the odds of gestational diabetes by 35% (aOR 0.65, 95% CI 0.47-0.91, p = 0.01) but not in other individual components of the composite outcomes. Mothers gained less gestational weight (mean 6.8 versus 8.3 kg; adjusted difference -1.2 Kg, 95% CI -2.2 to -0.2, p = 0.03) with intervention versus control. There was no difference in any of the other maternal and offspring complications between both groups. When we pooled findings from the Effect of Simple, Targeted Diet in Pregnant Women With Metabolic Risk Factors on Pregnancy Outcomes (ESTEEM) trial with similar trials using random effects meta-analysis, we observed a significant reduction in gestational diabetes (odds ratio [OR] 0.67, 95% CI 0.53-0.84, I2 = 0%), with no heterogeneity (2 trials, 2,397 women). The study's limitations include the use of participant reported tools for adherence to the intervention instead of objective biomarkers. CONCLUSIONS: A simple, individualised, Mediterranean-style diet in pregnancy did not reduce the overall risk of adverse maternal and offspring complications but has the potential to reduce gestational weight gain and the risk of gestational diabetes. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02218931.

Bamat, N., et al. (2019). "Positive end-expiratory pressure for preterm infants requiring conventional mechanical ventilation for respiratory distress syndrome or bronchopulmonary dysplasia." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2: Cd004500.
	BACKGROUND: Conventional mechanical ventilation (CMV) is a common therapy for neonatal respiratory failure. While CMV facilitates gas exchange, it may simultaneously injure the lungs. Positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) has received less attention than other ventilation parameters when considering this benefit-risk balance. While an appropriate PEEP level may result in clinical benefits, both inappropriately low or high levels may cause harm. An appropriate PEEP level may also be best achieved by an individualized approach. OBJECTIVES: 1. To compare the effects of PEEP levels in preterm infants requiring CMV for respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). We compare both: zero end-expiratory pressure (ZEEP) (0 cm H2O) versus any PEEP and low (< 5 cm H2O) vs high (>/= 5 cm H2O) PEEP.2. To compare the effects of PEEP levels in preterm infants requiring CMV for bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). We compare both: ZEEP (0 cm H2O) vs any PEEP and low (< 5 cm H2O) versus high (>/= 5 cm H2O) PEEP.3. To compare the effects of different methods for individualizing PEEP to an optimal level in preterm newborn infants requiring CMV for RDS. SEARCH METHODS: We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE via PubMed, Embase, and CINAHL to 14 February 2018. We also searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings, and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomized controlled trials and quasi-randomized trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials studying preterm infants born at less than 37 weeks' gestational age, requiring CMV and undergoing randomization to either different PEEP levels (RDS or BPD); or, two or more alternative methods for individualizing PEEP levels (RDS only). We included cross-over trials but limited outcomes to those from the first cross-over period. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We performed data collection and analysis according to the recommendations of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group. We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of evidence for prespecified key clinically relevant outcomes. MAIN RESULTS: Four trials met the inclusion criteria. Two cross-over trials with 28 participants compared different PEEP levels in infants with RDS. Meta-analysis was limited to short-term measures of pulmonary gas exchange and showed no differences between low and high PEEP.We identified no trials comparing PEEP levels in infants with BPD.Two trials enrolling 44 participants compared different methods for individualizing PEEP in infants with RDS. Both trials compared an oxygenation-guided lung-recruitment maneuver (LRM) with gradual PEEP level titrations for individualizing PEEP to routine care (control). Meta-analysis showed no difference between LRM and control on mortality by hospital discharge (risk ratio (RR) 1.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.17 to 5.77); there was no statistically significant difference on BPD, with an effect estimate favoring LRM (RR 0.25, 95% CI 0.03 to 2.07); and a statistically significant difference favoring LRM for the outcome of duration of ventilatory support (mean difference -1.06 days, 95% CI -1.85 to -0.26; moderate heterogeneity, I(2) = 67%). Short-term oxygenation measures also favored LRM. We graded the quality of the evidence as low for all key outcomes due to risk of bias and imprecision of the effect estimates. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There continues to be insufficient evidence to guide PEEP level selection for preterm infants on CMV for RDS or BPD. Low-quality data suggests that selecting PEEP levels through the application of an oxygenation-guided LRM may result in clinical benefit. Well-conducted randomized trials, particularly to further evaluate the potential benefits of oxygenation-guided LRMs, are needed.

Bannuru, R. R., et al. (2016). "Comparative safety profile of hyaluronic acid products for knee osteoarthritis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis." Osteoarthritis Cartilage 24(12): 2022-2041.
	PURPOSE: Intra-articular (IA) hyaluronic acid (HA) is considered a safer alternative to oral Non-Steroidal Antiinflammatory Drugs (NSAIDs) and opioids for knee osteoarthritis (OA). A recent review raised potential safety concerns about HA, warranting further review of safety outcomes. We examined the risks of HA compared with IA placebo and investigated whether the risks vary among individual HA preparations. METHODS: We searched all relevant databases from inception to October 2015 and sought unpublished data. We included all knee OA trials which compared any of the 18 HA products and reported on adverse events (AEs) and withdrawals. We calculated odds ratios for safety data reported at the longest follow-up. Network meta-analysis was performed using a Bayesian hierarchical random effects model for mixed multiple treatment comparisons. RESULTS: We identified 74 studies involving 13,032 participants aged between 45 and 75 years. The proportion of women ranged from 28% to 100%. The overall incidence of local reactions reported across all products was 8.5%. Commonly reported AEs were transient local reactions, such as pain, swelling and arthralgia, which subsided rapidly. None of the HA products were statistically significantly different from IA placebo or from each other with regard to incidence of AEs. Three treatment-related serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported among 9214 participants. CONCLUSIONS: Given the very low incidence of any particular AEs, we conclude that HA products are relatively well tolerated. These products have a similar safety profile compared to each other. This information along with the comparative effectiveness profile and relative cost would be helpful for clinicians in delivering individualized patient care.

Bannuru, R. R., et al. (2015). "Comparative effectiveness of pharmacologic interventions for knee osteoarthritis: a systematic review and network meta-analysis." Ann Intern Med 162(1): 46-54.
	BACKGROUND: The relative efficacy of available treatments of knee osteoarthritis (OA) must be determined for rational treatment algorithms to be formulated. PURPOSE: To examine the efficacy of treatments of primary knee OA using a network meta-analysis design, which estimates relative effects of all treatments against each other. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, Google Scholar, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from inception through 15 August 2014, and unpublished data. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized trials of adults with knee OA comparing 2 or more of the following: acetaminophen, diclofenac, ibuprofen, naproxen, celecoxib, intra-articular (IA) corticosteroids, IA hyaluronic acid, oral placebo, and IA placebo. DATA EXTRACTION: Two reviewers independently abstracted study data and assessed study quality. Standardized mean differences were calculated for pain, function, and stiffness at 3-month follow-up. DATA SYNTHESIS: Network meta-analysis was performed using a Bayesian random-effects model; 137 studies comprising 33,243 participants were identified. For pain, all interventions significantly outperformed oral placebo, with effect sizes from 0.63 (95% credible interval [CrI], 0.39 to 0.88) for the most efficacious treatment (hyaluronic acid) to 0.18 (CrI, 0.04 to 0.33) for the least efficacious treatment (acetaminophen). For function, all interventions except IA corticosteroids were significantly superior to oral placebo. For stiffness, most of the treatments did not significantly differ from one another. LIMITATION: Lack of long-term data, inadequate reporting of safety data, possible publication bias, and few head-to-head comparisons. CONCLUSION: This method allowed comparison of common treatments of knee OA according to their relative efficacy. Intra-articular treatments were superior to nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, possibly because of the integrated IA placebo effect. Small but robust differences were observed between active treatments. All treatments except acetaminophen showed clinically significant improvement from baseline pain. This information, along with the safety profiles and relative costs of included treatments, will be helpful for individualized patient care decisions. PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.

Barnes, H., et al. (2018). "Cyclophosphamide for connective tissue disease-associated interstitial lung disease." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 1: Cd010908.
	BACKGROUND: Approximately one-third of individuals with interstitial lung disease (ILD) have associated connective tissue disease (CTD). The connective tissue disorders most commonly associated with ILD include scleroderma/systemic sclerosis (SSc), rheumatoid arthritis, polymyositis/dermatomyositis, and Sjogren's syndrome. Although many people with CTD-ILD do not develop progressive lung disease, a significant proportion do progress, leading to reduced physical function, decreased quality of life, and death. ILD is now the major cause of death amongst individuals with systemic sclerosis.Cyclophosphamide is a highly potent immunosuppressant that has demonstrated efficacy in inducing and maintaining remission in autoimmune and inflammatory illnesses. However this comes with potential toxicities, including nausea, haemorrhagic cystitis, bladder cancer, bone marrow suppression, increased risk of opportunistic infections, and haematological and solid organ malignancies.Decision-making in the treatment of individuals with CTD-ILD is difficult; the clinician needs to identify those who will develop progressive disease, and to weigh up the balance between a high level of need for therapy in a severely unwell patient population against the potential for adverse effects from highly toxic therapy, for which only relatively limited data on efficacy can be found. Similarly, it is not clear whether histological subtype, disease duration, or disease extent can be used to predict treatment responsiveness. OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and adverse effects of cyclophosphamide in the treatment of individuals with CTD-ILD. SEARCH METHODS: We performed searches on CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and Web of Science up to May 2017. We handsearched review articles, clinical trial registries, and reference lists of retrieved articles. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled parallel-group trials that compared cyclophosphamide in any form, used individually or concomitantly with other immunomodulating therapies, versus non-cyclophosphamide-containing therapies for at least six months, with follow-up of at least 12 months from the start of treatment. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We imported studies identified by the search into a reference manager database. We retrieved the full-text versions of relevant studies, and two review authors independently extracted data. Primary outcomes were change in lung function (change in forced vital capacity (FVC) % predicted and diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (DLCO) % predicted), adverse events, and health-related quality of life measures. Secondary outcomes included all-cause mortality, dyspnoea, cough, and functional exercise testing. When appropriate, we performed meta-analyses and subgroup analyses by severity of lung function, connective tissue disease diagnosis, and radiological pattern of fibrosis. We assessed the evidence using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach and created 'Summary of findings' tables. MAIN RESULTS: We included in the analysis four trials with 495 participants (most with systemic sclerosis). We formed two separate comparisons: cyclophosphamide versus placebo (two trials, 195 participants) and cyclophosphamide versus mycophenolate (two trials, 300 participants). We found evidence to be of low quality, as dropout rates were high in the intervention groups, and as we noted a wide confidence interval around the effect with small differences, which affected the precision of results.The data demonstrates significant improvement in lung function with cyclophosphamide compared with placebo (post-treatment FVC % mean difference (MD) 2.83, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.80 to 4.87; P = 0.006) but no significant difference in post-treatment DLCO (% MD -1.68, 95% CI -4.37 to 1.02; P = 0.22; two trials, 182 participants).Risk of adverse effects was increased in the cyclophosphamide treatment groups compared with the placebo groups, in particular, haematuria, leukopenia, and nausea, leading to a higher rate of withdrawal from cyclophosphamide treatment. The data demonstrates statistically significant improvement in one-measure of quality of life in one trial favouring cyclophosphamide over placebo and clinically and statistically significant improvement in breathlessness in one trial favouring cyclophosphamide compared with placebo, with no significant impact on mortality.Trialists reported no significant impact on lung function when cyclophosphamide was used compared with mycophenolate at 12 months (FVC % MD -0.82, 95% CI -3.95 to 2.31; P = 0.61; two trials, 149 participants; DLCO % MD -1.41, 95% CI -10.40 to 7.58; P = 0.76; two trials, 149 participants).Risk of side effects was increased with cyclophosphamide versus mycophenolate, in particular, leukopenia and thrombocytopenia.The data demonstrates no significant impact on health-related quality of life, all-cause mortality, dyspnoea, or cough severity in the cyclophosphamide group compared with the mycophenolate group. No trials reported outcomes associated with functional exercise tests.We performed subgroup analysis to determine whether severity of lung function, connective tissue disease diagnosis, or radiological pattern had any impact on outcomes. One trial reported that cyclophosphamide protected against decreased FVC in individuals with worse fibrosis scores, and also showed that cyclophosphamide may be more effective in those with worse lung function. No association could be made between connective tissue disease diagnosis and outcomes. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: This review, which is based on studies of varying methodological quality, demonstrates that overall, in this population, small benefit may be derived from the use of cyclophosphamide in terms of mean difference in % FVC when compared with placebo, but not of the difference in % DLCO, or when compared with mycophenolate. Modest clinical improvement in dyspnoea may be noted with the use of cyclophosphamide. Clinical practice guidelines should advise clinicians to consider individual patient characteristics and to expect only modest benefit at best in preserving FVC. Clinicians should carefully monitor for adverse effects during treatment and in the years thereafter.Further studies are required to examine the use of cyclophosphamide; they should be adequately powered to compare outcomes within different subgroups, specifically, stratified for extent of pulmonary infiltrates on high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and skin involvement in SSc. Studies on other forms of connective tissue disease are needed. Researchers may consider comparing cyclophosphamide (a potent immunosuppressant) versus antifibrotic agents, or comparing both versus placebo, in particular, for those with evidence of rapidly progressive fibrotic disease, who may benefit the most.

Basile, C., et al. (2017). "Why choose high volume online post-dilution hemodiafiltration?" J Nephrol 30(2): 181-186.
	The mortality rate of patients on maintenance dialysis remains alarmingly high, at approximately 15-20 % per year. Increasing dialyzer urea clearance has not been shown to improve survival and hence interest has shifted towards convective therapies, such as hemodiafiltration (HDF) which can remove middle molecular weight uremic toxins, which have been suggested to increase mortality in patients with end-stage kidney disease. During the last few years, four large prospective randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been conducted in different European countries to compare survival outcomes in prevalent patients receiving conventional hemodialysis with online post-dilution HDF (OL HDF). Furthermore, a pooled individual participant data analysis from four RCTs was performed and four large meta-analyses on convective therapies have been published in the last 2 years. Taken together, these studies support the conclusion that high volume post-dilution OL HDF is associated with improved overall survival. This advantage results predominantly from a lower cardiovascular mortality, possibly due to better preservation of left ventricle mass and function. Improved intra-dialytic blood pressure stability may contribute to the beneficial effect of high volume post-dilution OL HDF on survival. The beneficial effect is not restricted to selected subgroups, such as age, comorbidity or dialysis vintage. There is no compelling evidence that high volume post-dilution OL HDF reduces mortality by improvements in traditional and non-traditional risk factors. There are still no studies or case reports published describing adverse clinical outcomes in more than 20 years of HDF clinical experience. In conclusion, most of the available data support the choice of high volume post-dilution HDF over the current dialysis techniques. However, considering that we live in the era of evidence-based medicine, the evidence supporting the superiority of high volume post-dilution OL HDF in comparison to hemodialysis is still missing: in fact, a new RCT targeting different convection volumes would be needed to definitively examine the dose-response effect shown in previous studies.

Bath, P. M., et al. (2019). "Baseline characteristics of the 1149 patients recruited into the Rapid Intervention with Glyceryl trinitrate in Hypertensive stroke Trial-2 (RIGHT-2) randomized controlled trial." Int J Stroke 14(3): 298-305.
	BACKGROUND: High blood pressure is common in acute stroke and associated with a worse functional outcome. Glyceryl trinitrate, a nitric oxide donor, lowers blood pressure in acute stroke and may improve outcome. AIMS: Rapid Intervention with Glyceryl trinitrate in Hypertensive stroke Trial-2 (RIGHT-2) tested the feasibility of performing a UK multicenter ambulance-based stroke trial, and the safety and efficacy of glyceryl trinitrate when administered by paramedics before hospital admission. METHODS: Paramedic-led ambulance-based multicenter prospective randomized single-blind blinded-endpoint parallel-group controlled trial of transdermal glyceryl trinitrate (given for four days) versus sham in patients with ultra-acute (<4 h) presumed stroke. Data are number (%), median (interquartile range) or mean (standard deviation). RESULTS: Recruitment ran from October 2015 to 31 May 2018. A total 1149 patients were recruited from eight UK ambulance services and taken to 54 acute hospitals. Baseline characteristics include: mean age 73 (15) years; female 555 (48%); median time from stroke to randomization 70 (45, 115) min; face-arm-speech scale score 2.6 (0.5); and blood pressure 162 (25)/92 (18) mmHg. The final diagnosis was ischemic stroke 52%, hemorrhagic stroke 13%, Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA) 9%, and mimic 25%. The main trial results will be presented in quarter 4 2018. The results will also be included in updated Cochrane systematic reviews, and individual patient data meta-analyses of all relevant randomized controlled trials. CONCLUSION: It was feasible to perform a multicenter ambulance-based ultra-acute stroke trial in the UK and to treat with glyceryl trinitrate versus sham. The relatively unselected cohort of stroke patients is broadly representative of those admitted to hospital in the UK. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN26986053.

Batson, S., et al. (2017). "Tyrosine kinase inhibitor combination therapy in first-line treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer: systematic review and network meta-analysis." Onco Targets Ther 10: 2473-2482.
	INTRODUCTION: The introduction of epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors (EGFR-TKIs) has improved the outlook for patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with EGFR+ mutations. However, most patients develop resistance, with the result that median progression-free survival (PFS) is12 months. Combining EGFR-TKIs with other agents, such as bevacizumab, is a promising approach to prolonging remission. This systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) were undertaken to assess available evidence regarding the benefits of first-line combination therapy involving EGFR-TKIs in patients with advanced NSCLC. METHODS: Literature searches were performed using relevant search terms. Study-level pseudo-individual patient-level data (IPD) were recreated from digitized Kaplan-Meier curve data, using a published algorithm. Study IPD were analyzed using both the proportional hazards and the acceleration failure time (AFT) survival models, and it was concluded that the AFT model was most appropriate. An NMA was performed based on acceleration factors (AFs) using a Bayesian framework to compare EGFR-TKIs and chemotherapy. RESULTS: Nine randomized controlled trials were identified that provided data for EGFR-TKI therapy in patients with EGFR+ tumors. These included studies of afatinib (n=3), erlotinib (n=3), erlotinib plus bevacizumab (n=1) and gefitinib (n=2). Erlotinib plus bevacizumab produced the greatest increase in PFS compared with chemotherapy, with 1/AF being 0.24 (95% credible interval [CrI] 0.17, 0.34). This combination also produced greater increases in PFS compared with EGFR-TKI monotherapy: 1/AF versus afatinib, 0.51 (95% CrI 0.35, 0.73); versus erlotinib, 0.53 (95% CrI 0.39, 0.72) and versus gefitinib, 0.46 (95% CrI 0.32, 0.66). All three EGFR-TKI monotherapies prolonged PFS compared with chemotherapy; estimates of treatment effect ranged from 1/AF 0.53 (95% CrI 0.48, 0.60) for gefitinib to 1/AF 0.46 (95% CrI 0.40, 0.53) for erlotinib. There was no evidence for differences between EGFR-TKI monotherapies, as all 95% CrIs included the null value. CONCLUSION: Although data for erlotinib plus bevacizumab came from a single Phase 2 study, the results of the NMA suggest that adding bevacizumab to erlotinib may be a promising approach to improving the outcomes achieved with EGFR-TKI monotherapy in patients with advanced EGFR+ NSCLC.

Batson, S., et al. (2016). "Exploratory Network Meta Regression Analysis of Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Fails to Identify Any Interactions with Treatment Effect." PLoS One 11(8): e0161864.
	BACKGROUND: Patients with atrial fibrillation are at a greater risk of stroke and therefore the main goal for treatment of patients with atrial fibrillation is to prevent stroke from occurring. There are a number of different stroke prevention treatments available to include warfarin and novel oral anticoagulants. Previous network meta-analyses of novel oral anticoagulants for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation acknowledge the limitation of heterogeneity across the included trials but have not explored the impact of potentially important treatment modifying covariates. OBJECTIVES: To explore potentially important treatment modifying covariates using network meta-regression analyses for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. METHODS: We performed a network meta-analysis for the outcome of ischaemic stroke and conducted an exploratory regression analysis considering potentially important treatment modifying covariates. These covariates included the proportion of patients with a previous stroke, proportion of males, mean age, the duration of study follow-up and the patients underlying risk of ischaemic stroke. RESULTS: None of the covariates explored impacted relative treatment effects relative to placebo. Notably, the exploration of 'study follow-up' as a covariate supported the assumption that difference in trial durations is unimportant in this indication despite the variation across trials in the network. CONCLUSION: This study is limited by the quantity of data available. Further investigation is warranted, and, as justifying further trials may be difficult, it would be desirable to obtain individual patient level data (IPD) to facilitate an effort to relate treatment effects to IPD covariates in order to investigate heterogeneity. Observational data could also be examined to establish if there are potential trends elsewhere. The approach and methods presented have potentially wide applications within any indication as to highlight the potential benefit of extending decision problems to include additional comparators outside of those of primary interest to allow for the exploration of heterogeneity.

Belhechmi, S., et al. (2019). "An alternative trial-level measure for evaluating failure-time surrogate endpoints based on prediction error." Contemp Clin Trials Commun 15: 100402.
	To validate a failure-time surrogate for an established failure-time clinical endpoint such as overall survival, the meta-analytic approach is commonly used. The standard correlation approach considers two levels: the individual level, with Kendall's tau measuring the rank correlation between the endpoints, and the trial level, with the coefficient of determination R 2 measuring the correlation between the treatment effects on the surrogate and on the final endpoint. However, the estimation of R 2 is not robust with respect to the estimation error of the trial-specific treatment effects. The alternative proposed in this article uses a prediction error based on a measure of the weighted difference between the observed treatment effect on the final endpoint and a model-based predicted effect. The measures can be estimated by cross-validation within the meta-analytic setting or external validation on a set of trials. Several distances are presented, with varying weights, based on the standard error of the observed treatment effect and of its predicted value. A simulation study was conducted under different scenarios, varying the number and the size of the trials, Kendall's tau and R 2 . These measures have been applied to individual patient data from a meta-analysis of trials in advanced/recurrent gastric cancer (20 randomized trials of chemotherapy, 4069 patients). The distance-based measures appeared to be robust with respect to different values of simulation parameters in several scenarios (such as Kendall's tau, size and number of clinical trials). The absolute prediction error can be an alternative to the trial-level R 2 for evaluation of candidate time-to-event surrogates.

Ben-Horin, S., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of biological drugs in short-duration versus long-duration inflammatory bowel disease: a protocol for a systematic review and an individual-patient level meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials." BMJ Open 9(1): e024222.
	INTRODUCTION: Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) are remitting-relapsing inflammatory diseases often culminating in disease complications and/or need for surgery. Biologic monoclonal antibody drugs ('Biologics') are efficacious for both diseases, but there are no systematic assessments of their efficacy if administered early after disease onset ('top-down' strategy) vis-a-vis later in the course of disease ('step-up' approach). METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE/EMBASE classic Cochrane CENTRAL register of controlled trials, the Cochrane IBD Group Specialised Trials Register and Clinicaltrials.gov registry) will be searched to identify all randomised placebo-controlled clinical trials of food and drug administration (FDA)-approved biologics for CD and UC (by March 2016). Two independent reviewers will screen identified papers, extract data and assess the risk of bias according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. Individual-patient-level data (IPD) will be extracted from the identified trials through data-sharing platforms for pharmaceutical companies' sponsored trials and by contacting principal investigators of independent investigator-initiated trials. We will analyse induction of remission in patients with early-disease (<18 months since disease onset) versus patients with longer disease duration, using a generalised linear mixed effect model and by a two-stage approach using coefficient for the treatment-by-subgroup interaction within each trial. We will perform receiver operator curve analysis of optimal disease duration for response. Analyses will be separate for CD and UC. This first-of-its-kind meta-analysis at IPD level of interaction of disease duration with the response to biologics in UC and CD may elucidate the impact of early initiation of biologics, which is of paramount importance for clinical practice and management strategies of inflammatory bowel disease. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This meta-analysis was approved by the Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-sen University. Findings will be published in peer-reviewed journal and disseminated via scientific meetings and links with organisations. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018041961.

Bethel, M. A., et al. (2018). "Cardiovascular outcomes with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists in patients with type 2 diabetes: a meta-analysis." Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 6(2): 105-113.
	BACKGROUND: Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are effective glucose-lowering drugs. Findings from cardiovascular outcome trials showed cardiovascular safety of GLP-1 receptor agonists, but results for cardiovascular efficacy were varied. We aimed to examine overall cardiovascular efficacy for lixisenatide, liraglutide, semaglutide, and extended-release exenatide. METHODS: In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we analysed data from eligible trials that assessed the safety and efficacy of GLP-1 receptor agonists compared with placebo in adult patients (aged 18 years or older) with type 2 diabetes and had a primary outcome including, but not limited to, cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and non-fatal stroke. We searched PubMed and MEDLINE without language restrictions up to Sept 18, 2017, for eligible trials. We did a meta-analysis of available trial data using a random-effects model to calculate overall hazard ratios (HRs) for cardiovascular efficacy outcomes and odds ratios for key safety outcomes. FINDINGS: Of 12 articles identified in our search and screened for eligibility, four trials of cardiovascular outcomes of GLP-1 receptor agonists were identified: ELIXA (lixisenatide), LEADER (liraglutide), SUSTAIN 6 (semaglutide), and EXSCEL (extended-release exenatide). Compared with placebo, GLP-1 receptor agonist treatment showed a significant 10% relative risk reduction in the three-point major adverse cardiovascular event primary outcome (cardiovascular mortality, non-fatal myocardial infarction, and non-fatal stroke; HR 0.90, 95% CI 0.82-0.99; p=0.033), a 13% RRR in cardiovascular mortality (0.87, 0.79-0.96; p=0.007), and a 12% relative risk reduction in all-cause mortality (0.88, 0.81-0.95; p=0.002), with low-to-moderate between-trial statistical heterogeneity. No significant effect of GLP-1 receptor agonists was identified on fatal and non-fatal myocardial infarction, fatal and non-fatal stroke, hospital admission for unstable angina, or hospital admission for heart failure. Overall, no significant differences were seen in severe hypoglycaemia, pancreatitis, pancreatic cancer, or medullary thyroid cancer reported between GLP-1 receptor agonist treatment and placebo. INTERPRETATION: Our findings show cardiovascular safety across all GLP-1 receptor agonist cardiovascular outcome trials and suggest that drugs in this class can reduce three-point major adverse cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality, and all-cause mortality risk, albeit to varying degrees for individual drugs, without significant safety concerns. GLP-1 receptor agonists have a favourable risk-benefit balance overall, which should allow the choice of drug to be individualised to each patient's needs. FUNDING: Amylin Pharmaceuticals (AstraZeneca).

Bidonde, J., et al. (2017). NIPH Systematic Reviews. FreeStyle Libre Flash Glucose Self-Monitoring System: A Single-Technology Assessment. Oslo, Norway, Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH)
Copyright (c) 2017 by The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH).
	BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus (DM) has become one of the most common public health problems world-wide. According to the 2014 Norwegian Public Health report, diabetes affects an estimated 4.3% of the Norwegian population. Diabetes is a metabolic disorder resulting from a defect in insulin production, secretion, action, or all. Type 1 and 2 are the two main types, with the prevalence of type 2 accounting for the majority (>85%) of diabetes. This assessment will focus on FreeStyle Libre, flash glucose monitor for insulin treated individuals with type 1 and 2 diabetes ("Type 1 and 2 DM"). To achieve proper quality of life and reduce long-term problems, people are increasingly encouraged to take an active role in the management of their condition. Adequate treatment management, aimed at tight control of blood glucose, reduces the risk of the long-term complications of diabetes such as retinopathy, nephropathy, neuropathy, coronary heart disease, ischaemic stroke and peripheral vascular disease. "Management" of the disease should be understood as a package including testing of blood glucose, taking insulin (i.e., multiple daily insulin injections, using an insulin pump), using anti-hyperglycemic drugs, or adopting lifestyle interventions such as diet and physical activity. In recent years, and available in Europe since 2014, the FreeStyle Libre System -- a "wireless" method using a sensor for monitoring interstitial fluid glucose -- was introduced to help individuals with type 1 and 2 DM achieve better glucose control. The system, unlike others, does not require finger prick calibration, since that functionality is embedded into the core technology. Also, unlike other systems, the individual has to take active action to get access to the real time glucose value, by leading the receiver over the sensor. Similarly to other continuous glucose monitoring options, it relies on the individual to take action on the information retrieved. OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to assess the clinical effectiveness, cost effectiveness and safety of FreeStyle Libre for individuals with type 1 and 2 DM. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review according to standard methods to summarise the evidence. The study populations were insulin treated individuals with Type 1 or 2 DM, the intervention was FreeStyle Libre, and the outcomes were HbA1c, hypo and hyperglycaemia, quality of life, patient satisfaction, pain, and adverse events. We searched databases, trial registries, health technology assessment agencies websites and grey literature from inception to January 2017 with no language restrictions. Two reviewers independently screened the titles and abstracts of all records identified by searches, discussed any discrepancies and solved them by consensus. We obtained full text copies of all studies deemed potentially relevant and the same two reviewers independently assessed these for inclusion; solving any disagreements by consensus. One reviewer extracted data relating to study details, participants, intervention, and comparator, using a piloted, standard data extraction form. A second reviewer checked data extraction and any disagreements we resolved by consensus. The assessment of the methodological quality of each included study was based on the Cochrane Collaboration risk of bias tool. Quality assessment of evidence was carried out independently by two reviewers. We solved any disagreements by consensus. Meta-analysis was considered a suitable analysis for the data identified, despite heterogeneity. For some outcomes we employed a narrative synthesis. ASSESSMENT OF COST EFFECTIVENESS: We assessed the cost-effectiveness estimates provided by the submitter of FreeStyle Libre compared to self-monitoring blood glucose (SMBG) for individuals with type 1 and 2 DM. The submitter used a commercially available cost-effectiveness model, IMS CORE diabetes model (IMS CDM) for this assessment. The model is internet based, with a Markov application, for individuals >18 years. The interactive simulation predicts the long-term health outcomes and costs associated with the management of type 1 and 2 DM. The model consist of 17 sub-models designed to simulate diabetes related complications, nonspecific mortality, and costs over time. As the model simulates individual patients over time, it updates risk factors and complications to account for disease progression. However, this model received from the submitter, lacks transparency, and made it difficult to gain a firm understanding of the factors that determine how patients progress through the model, assumptions and parameters effect outcomes and to assess the validity of the model. Because the Norwegian Institute of Public Health did not have complete access to the model, it was not possible to perform a full assessment of the model or to modify underlying assumptions and parameters in order to independently assess the impact on reported results. Furthermore, the documentation package did not include any sensitivity analysis, which is essential for considering the validity and robustness of results from economic evaluations. RESULTS: We included two randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in the review. These studies compared FreeStyle Libre to SMBG. Also, we found several publications investigating the accuracy of the device, however, the study designs of these studies (single arm) did not meet the inclusion criteria of this evaluation and, although we compiled them for information, they were excluded from the synthesis. The information derived from these single arm studies are potentially important to validate the sensitivity and specificity estimates of FreeStyle Libre. In addition, we found other European assessments conducted in the past 6 to 8 months. The included RCTs reported data on middle aged adults from European countries with type 1 and 2 DM at 6 months post intervention. We rated the studies' risk of bias as unclear to high risk. Main findings from these trials are that FreeStyle Libre may slightly improve treatment satisfaction, time spent with glucose in range 3.9 to 10 mmol/L, number of nocturnal events with glucose levels <3.1 mmol/L within 7h, and time spent with glucose levels >13.0 mmol/L in comparison to SMBG. FreeStyle Libre lead to little or no difference in quality of life and HbA1c level in comparison to SMBG. The evidence is uncertain about whether FreeStyle Libre leads to an improvement in time and events with glucose <3.9mmol/L within 24 h, time with glucose <3.1 mmol/L at night within 7 hours, and time with glucose >10 mmol/L. The submitted economic model runs a 40-year time horizon. The submitter's basecase suggested that the technology is dominant for individuals with type 1 DM, i.e. that FreeStyle Libre is a cheaper and more effective technology. According to submitter's base case, individuals with type 2 DM the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated to be NOK 235,673 per QALY (whole study population) and NOK 243,434 per QALY (under 65 years). As the model received by the submitter was neither sufficiently transparent nor sufficiently flexible to allow changes, we have not been able to produce alternative incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). From a healthcare perspective, the submitter has calculated a budget impact for type 1 DM to have a total added cost the fifth year after adoption of the technology. Further, the submitter calculated a budget impact for type 1 and 2 DM that lead to a cost saving on the fifth year after adoption of the techonology. The submitter did not calculate a budget impact for type 2 DM only. We estimated that, from a healthcare perspective, the annual costs five years after introduction would be NOK 186 million added cost and NOK 91.7 million saved cost for type 1 and 2 DM alone, respectively, and NOK 94 million added cost for type 1 and 2 DM combined. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the evidence for the intervention of interest was limited but suggests that FreeStyle Libre increases treatment satisfaction, reduces some hypo- and hyperglycaemic measures (increases time with glucose in range 3.9 to 10 mmol/L, reduces time and number of events with glucose <3.9 in 24 hours, number of glucose <3.1 night events and time with glucose >13 mmol/L) and has similar serious adverse events than SMBG, without differences in other outcomes including HbA1c and quality of life. The quality of the included studies was generally low and there were only two small studies including middle aged adults. Several inconsistencies lead us to question the result of the submitted health economic report. Specifically, the submitted model included several input data that did not match the input data described in the submitted documentation package, and nor did it match the input data found in other literature. The most challenging issue is that the model is not sufficiently transparent or flexible, since we did not have access to the complete model. Therefore, we were not able to assess how the possible adjustments would affect the results provided by the submitters. SUGGESTED RESEARCH PRIORITIES: Independent research for FreeStyle Libre will be important. Diabetes affects the life of children, adolescents and their caregivers in many ways, as well as pregnant women. Independent research including these groups is warranted. The clinical effectiveness of FreeStyle Libre needs to be investigated in different conditions, for example, among individuals with poor self-monitoring adherence, newly diagnosed, impaired awareness of hypoglycaemia, and in addition to training and education components. FreeStyle Libre compared to other continuous monitoring systems is warranted. Pain is a major determinant of diabetes treatment adherence, especially for children, and it should be included as an individual outcome in future trials. Future trials should include longer term follow up and quality of life outcome assessments at various points to inform improved clinical and cost effectiveness modelling.

Blanchard, P., et al. (2015). "Chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nasopharyngeal carcinoma: an update of the MAC-NPC meta-analysis." Lancet Oncol 16(6): 645-655.
	BACKGROUND: A previous individual patient data meta-analysis by the Meta-Analysis of Chemotherapy in Nasopharynx Carcinoma (MAC-NPC) collaborative group to assess the addition of chemotherapy to radiotherapy showed that it improves overall survival in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. This benefit was restricted to patients receiving concomitant chemotherapy and radiotherapy. The aim of this study was to update the meta-analysis, include recent trials, and to analyse separately the benefit of concomitant plus adjuvant chemotherapy. METHODS: We searched PubMed, Web of Science, Cochrane Controlled Trials meta-register, ClinicalTrials.gov, and meeting proceedings to identify published or unpublished randomised trials assessing radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy in patients with non-metastatic nasopharyngeal carcinoma and obtained updated data for previously analysed studies. The primary endpoint of interest was overall survival. All trial results were combined and analysed using a fixed-effects model. The statistical analysis plan was pre-specified in a protocol. All data were analysed on an intention-to-treat basis. FINDINGS: We analysed data from 19 trials and 4806 patients. Median follow-up was 7.7 years (IQR 6.2-11.9). We found that the addition of chemotherapy to radiotherapy significantly improved overall survival (hazard ratio [HR] 0.79, 95% CI 0.73-0.86, p<0.0001; absolute benefit at 5 years 6.3%, 95% CI 3.5-9.1). The interaction between treatment effect (benefit of chemotherapy) on overall survival and the timing of chemotherapy was significant (p=0.01) in favour of concomitant plus adjuvant chemotherapy (HR 0.65, 0.56-0.76) and concomitant without adjuvant chemotherapy (0.80, 0.70-0.93) but not adjuvant chemotherapy alone (0.87, 0.68-1.12) or induction chemotherapy alone (0.96, 0.80-1.16). The benefit of the addition of chemotherapy was consistent for all endpoints analysed (all p<0.0001): progression-free survival (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.69-0.81), locoregional control (0.73, 0.64-0.83), distant control (0.67, 0.59-0.75), and cancer mortality (0.76, 0.69-0.84). INTERPRETATION: Our results confirm that the addition of concomitant chemotherapy to radiotherapy significantly improves survival in patients with locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma. To our knowledge, this is the first analysis that examines the effect of concomitant chemotherapy with and without adjuvant chemotherapy as distinct groups. Further studies on the specific benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy after concomitant chemoradiotherapy are needed. FUNDING: French Ministry of Health (Programme d'actions integrees de recherche VADS), Ligue Nationale Contre le Cancer, and Sanofi-Aventis.

Bloomfield, R., et al. (2015). "Prone position for acute respiratory failure in adults." Cochrane Database Syst Rev(11): Cd008095.
	BACKGROUND: Acute hypoxaemia de novo or on a background of chronic hypoxaemia is a common reason for admission to intensive care and for provision of mechanical ventilation. Various refinements of mechanical ventilation or adjuncts are employed to improve patient outcomes. Mortality from acute respiratory distress syndrome, one of the main contributors to the need for mechanical ventilation for hypoxaemia, remains approximately 40%. Ventilation in the prone position may improve lung mechanics and gas exchange and could improve outcomes. OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this review are (1) to ascertain whether prone ventilation offers a mortality advantage when compared with traditional supine or semi recumbent ventilation in patients with severe acute respiratory failure requiring conventional invasive artificial ventilation, and (2) to supplement previous systematic reviews on prone ventilation for hypoxaemic respiratory failure in an adult population. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2014, Issue 1), Ovid MEDLINE (1950 to 31 January 2014), EMBASE (1980 to 31 January 2014), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (1982 to 31 January 2014) and Latin American Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) (1992 to 31 January 2014) in Ovid MEDLINE for eligible randomized controlled trials. We also searched for studies by handsearching reference lists of relevant articles, by contacting colleagues and by handsearching published proceedings of relevant journals. We applied no language constraints, and we reran the searches in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and LILACS in June 2015. We added five new studies of potential interest to the list of "Studies awaiting classification" and will incorporate them into formal review findings during the review update. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that examined the effects of prone position versus supine/semi recumbent position during conventional mechanical ventilation in adult participants with acute hypoxaemia. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently reviewed all trials identified by the search and assessed them for suitability, methods and quality. Two review authors extracted data, and three review authors reviewed the data extracted. We analysed data using Review Manager software and pooled included studies to determine the risk ratio (RR) for mortality and the risk ratio or mean difference (MD) for secondary outcomes; we also performed subgroup analyses and sensitivity analyses. MAIN RESULTS: We identified nine relevant RCTs, which enrolled a total of 2165 participants (10 publications). All recruited participants suffered from disorders of lung function causing moderate to severe hypoxaemia and requiring mechanical ventilation, so they were fairly comparable, given the heterogeneity of specific disease diagnoses in intensive care. Risk of bias, although acceptable in the view of the review authors, was inevitable: Blinding of participants and carers to treatment allocation was not possible (face-up vs face-down).Primary analyses of short- and longer-term mortality pooled from six trials demonstrated an RR of 0.84 to 0.86 in favour of the prone position (PP), but findings were not statistically significant: In the short term, mortality for those ventilated prone was 33.4% (363/1086) and supine 38.3% (395/1031). This resulted in an RR of 0.84 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.69 to 1.02) marginally in favour of PP. For longer-term mortality, results showed 41.7% (462/1107) for prone and 47.1% (490/1041) for supine positions, with an RR of 0.86 (95% CI 0.72 to 1.03). The quality of the evidence for both outcomes was rated as low as a result of important potential bias and serious inconsistency.Subgroup analyses for mortality identified three groups consistently favouring PP: those recruited within 48 hours of meeting entry criteria (five trials; 1024 participants showed an RR of 0.75 (95% CI 0.59 to 94)); those treated in the PP for 16 or more hours per day (five trials; 1005 participants showed an RR of 0.77 (95% CI 0.61 to 0.99)); and participants with more severe hypoxaemia at trial entry (six trials; 1108 participants showed an RR of 0.77 (95% CI 0.65 to 0.92)). The quality of the evidence for these outcomes was rated as moderate as a result of potentially important bias.Prone positioning appeared to influence adverse effects: Pressure sores (three trials; 366 participants) with an RR of 1.37 (95% CI 1.05 to 1.79) and tracheal tube obstruction with an RR of 1.78 (95% CI 1.22 to 2.60) were increased with prone ventilation. Reporting of arrhythmias was reduced with PP, with an RR of 0.64 (95% CI 0.47 to 0.87). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no convincing evidence of benefit nor harm from universal application of PP in adults with hypoxaemia mechanically ventilated in intensive care units (ICUs). Three subgroups (early implementation of PP, prolonged adoption of PP and severe hypoxaemia at study entry) suggested that prone positioning may confer a statistically significant mortality advantage. Additional adequately powered studies would be required to confirm or refute these possibilities of subgroup benefit but are unlikely, given results of the most recent study and recommendations derived from several published subgroup analyses. Meta-analysis of individual patient data could be useful for further data exploration in this regard. Complications such as tracheal obstruction are increased with use of prone ventilation. Long-term mortality data (12 months and beyond), as well as functional, neuro-psychological and quality of life data, are required if future studies are to better inform the role of PP in the management of hypoxaemic respiratory failure in the ICU.

Bonthapally, V., et al. (2015). "Brentuximab vedotin compared with other therapies in relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma post autologous stem cell transplant: median overall survival meta-analysis." Curr Med Res Opin 31(7): 1377-1389.
	OBJECTIVE: This meta-analysis compared the median overall survival (mOS) of brentuximab vedotin reported in the pivotal phase 2 study with published results of other therapies for the treatment of relapsed/refractory (R/R) Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) post autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A systematic literature review identified studies that reported survival outcomes following conventional/experimental therapies in R/R HL patients, with >/=50% having failed >/=1 ASCT. Kaplan-Meier curves were used to reconstruct individual patient level survival data. Patients were grouped by treatment type and reconstructed data were used to estimate the mOS. Censored median regression modeling was used to compare mOS in each group with the mOS in the pivotal brentuximab vedotin trial. All patients in the pivotal trial had undergone ASCT, therefore a sensitivity analysis was conducted among studies with a 100% post-ASCT patient population. RESULTS: The mOS reported for brentuximab vedotin was 40.5 (95% CI 30.8-NA) compared with 26.4 months (95% CI 23.5-28.5) across all 40 studies identified (n = 2518 excluding the brentuximab vedotin trial) (p < 0.0001). The difference in mOS between brentuximab vedotin and chemotherapy, allogeneic stem cell transplant (allo-SCT), and other therapies, was 17.7 (95% CI 10.6-24.7; p < 0.0001), 12.5 (95% CI 8.2-16.9; p < 0.0001), and 15.2 months (95% CI 4.9-25.5; p = 0.0037), respectively. For the 11 studies reporting a 100% prior-ASCT rate (n = 662 excluding the brentuximab vedotin trial), the mOS was 28.1 months (95% CI 23.9-34.5), and the difference in mOS between brentuximab vedotin, chemotherapy, allo-SCT, and other therapies was 19.0 (95% CI 12.9-25.1; p < 0.0001), 9.4 (p > 0.05), and 6.8 months (95% CI 1.2-12.5; p = 0.0018), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: While some selection bias may occur when comparing trials with heterogeneous eligibility criteria, in the absence of randomized controlled trial data these results suggest brentuximab vedotin improves long-term survival and is associated with longer mOS in R/R HL post-ASCT compared with other therapies.

Boonmak, P., et al. (2016). "High initial concentration versus low initial concentration sevoflurane for inhalational induction of anaesthesia." Cochrane Database Syst Rev(6): Cd006837.
	BACKGROUND: Sevoflurane induction for general anaesthesia has been reported to be safe, reliable and well accepted by patients. Sevoflurane induction uses either low or high initial concentrations. The low initial concentration technique involves initially administering a low concentration of sevoflurane and gradually increasing the concentration of the dose until the patient is anaesthetized. The high initial concentration technique involves administering high concentrations from the beginning, then continuing with those high doses until the patient is anaesthetized. This review was originally published in 2013 and has been updated in 2016. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to compare induction times and complication rates between high and low initial concentration sevoflurane anaesthetic induction techniques in adults and children who received inhalational induction for general anaesthesia. We defined 'high' as greater than or equal to and 'low' as less than a 4% initial concentration. SEARCH METHODS: For the updated review, we searched the following databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1950 to February 2016), EMBASE (1980 to February 2016), Latin American Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) (1982 to February 2016) and the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Web of Science (1946 to February 2016). We also searched the reference lists of relevant articles and conference proceedings and contacted the authors of included trials. The original search was run in September 2011. SELECTION CRITERIA: We sought all published and unpublished, randomized controlled trials comparing high versus low initial sevoflurane concentration inhalational induction. Our primary outcomes included two measures of anaesthesia (time to loss of the eyelash reflex (LOER) and time until a weighted object held in the patient's hand was dropped), time to successful insertion of a laryngeal mask airway (LMA) and time to endotracheal intubation. Other outcomes were complications of the technique. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used standardized methods for conducting a systematic review as described in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. Two review authors independently extracted details of trial methods and outcome data from reports of all trials considered eligible for inclusion. We conducted all analyses on an intention-to-treat basis, when possible. We estimated overall treatment effects by using a fixed-effect model when we found no substantial heterogeneity, whereas we applied the random-effects model in the presence of considerable heterogeneity. MAIN RESULTS: We reran the searches and included one new study (100 participants) in this updated review. In total, we included 11 studies with 829 participants, although most analyses were based on data from fewer participants and evidence of low quality. We noted substantial heterogeneity in the included trials. Thus, our results should be read with caution. It was not possible to combine trials for the primary outcome (LOER), but individual trials reported faster induction times (typically 24 to 82 seconds faster, 41 seconds (31.37 to 50.62)) with high initial concentration sevoflurane (six studies, 443 participants, low-quality evidence). Apnoea appeared to be more common in the high initial concentration sevoflurane group (risk ratio (RR) 3.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.72 to 5.7, two studies, 160 participants, low-quality evidence). We found no evidence of differences between the two groups in the incidence of cough (odds ratio (OR) 1.23, 95% CI 0.53 to 2.81, eight studies, 589 participants, low-quality evidence), laryngospasm (OR 1.59, 95% CI 0.16 to 15.9, seven studies, 588 participants, low-quality evidence), breath holding (OR 1.16, 95% CI 0.47 to 2.83, five studies, 389 participants, low-quality evidence), patient movement (RR 1.14, 95% CI 0.69 to 1.89, five studies, 445 participants, low-quality evidence) or bradycardia (OR 0.8, 95% CI 0.22 to 2.88, three studies, 199 participants, low-quality evidence), and the overall incidence of complications was low. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: A high initial concentration sevoflurane technique probably offers more rapid induction of anaesthesia and a similar rate of complications, except for apnoea, which may be more common with a high initial concentration. However, this conclusion is not definitive because the included studies provided evidence of low quality.

Boyce, E. G., et al. (2016). "Impact of tofacitinib on patient outcomes in rheumatoid arthritis - review of clinical studies." Patient Relat Outcome Meas 7: 1-12.
	Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic, progressive autoimmune disease associated with inflammation and destruction of joints and systemic effects, which result in significant impact on patient's quality of life and function. Tofacitinib was approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in the USA in 2012 and subsequently in other countries, but not by the European Medicines Agency. The goal of this review was to evaluate the impact of tofacitinib on patient-reported and patient-specific outcomes from prior clinical studies, focusing on quality of life, functionality, pain, global disease assessment, major adverse consequences, and withdrawals. A total of 13 reports representing 11 clinical studies on tofacitinib in rheumatoid arthritis were identified through PubMed and reference lists in meta-analyses and other reviews. Data on improvements in patient-driven composite tools to measure disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis, such as the Health Assessment Questionnaire, served as a major outcome evaluated in this review and were extracted from each study. Additional data extracted from those clinical studies included patient assessment of pain (using a 0-100 mm visual analog scale), patient global assessment of disease (using a 0-100 mm visual analog scale), patient withdrawals, withdrawals due to adverse effects or lack of effect, and risk of serious adverse effects, serious infections, and deaths. Tofacitinib 5 mg bid appears to have a favorable impact on patient outcomes related to efficacy and safety when compared with baseline values and with comparator disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and placebo. Improvements were seen in the composite and individual measures of disease activity. Serious adverse effects, other adverse consequences, overall withdrawals, and withdrawals due to adverse effects and lack of efficacy are similar or more favorable for tofacitinib versus comparator disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs and placebo. At this point, tofacitinib appears to have an important role in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis through improvement in these patient outcomes. However, it may require years of additional clinical studies and postmarketing surveillance to fully characterize the benefit-to-risk ratio of tofacitinib in a larger and diverse patient population.

Branche, A., et al. (2019). "Procalcitonin to guide antibiotic decision making." Curr Opin Infect Dis 32(2): 130-135.
	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: There is convincing evidence linking antibiotic-stewardship efforts which include the infection marker procalcitonin (PCT) to more rational use of antibiotics with improvements in side-effects and clinical outcomes. This is particularly true in the setting of respiratory infection and sepsis. Yet, some recent trials have shown no benefit of PCT-guided care. Our aim was to discuss the benefits and limitations of using PCT for early infection recognition, severity assessment and therapeutic decisions in individual patients based on most the recent study data. RECENT FINDINGS: Current evidence from randomized trials, and meta-analyses of these trials, indicates that PCT-guided antibiotic stewardship results in a reduction in antibiotic use and antibiotic side-effects, which translates into improved survival of patients with respiratory infections and sepsis. Notably, initial PCT levels have been found to be helpful in defining the risk for bacterial infection in the context of a low pretest probability for bacterial infections (i.e., patients with bronchitis or chronic bastructive pulmonary disease exacerbation). Monitoring of repeated PCT measurements over time has also been found helpful for estimating recovery from bacterial infection and prognosis in higher risk situations (i.e., pneumonia or sepsis) and results in early and safe discontinuation of antibiotic therapy. Some trials, however, did not find a strong effect of PCT guidance which may be explained by low protocol adherence, assessment using only a single rather than repeat PCT levels and lower antibiotic exposure in control group patients. Using PCT in the right patient population, with high-sensitivity assays and with adequate training of physicians is important to increase protocol adherence and reduce antibiotic exposure. SUMMARY: Inclusion of PCT into antibiotic stewardship algorithms has the potential to improve the diagnostic and therapeutic management of patients presenting with respiratory illnesses and sepsis, and holds great promise to mitigate the global bacterial resistance crisis and move from a default position of standardized care to more personalized treatment decisions.

Breilmann, J., et al. (2019). "Benzodiazepines versus placebo for panic disorder in adults." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 3: Cd010677.
	BACKGROUND: Panic disorder is characterised by recurrent unexpected panic attacks consisting of a wave of intense fear that reaches a peak within a few minutes. Panic disorder is a common disorder, with an estimated lifetime prevalence of 1% to 5% in the general population and a 7% to 10% prevalence in primary care settings. Its aetiology is not fully understood and is probably heterogeneous.Panic disorder is treated with psychological and pharmacological interventions, often used in combination. Although benzodiazepines are frequently used in the treatment of panic disorder, guidelines recommend antidepressants, mainly selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), as first-line treatment for panic disorder, particularly due to their lower incidence of dependence and withdrawal reaction when compared to benzodiazepines. Despite these recommendations, benzodiazepines are widely used in the treatment of panic disorder, probably because of their rapid onset of action. OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy and acceptability of benzodiazepines versus placebo in the treatment of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia in adults. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Common Mental Disorders Controlled Trials Register (CCMDCTR Studies and References), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (1950-), Embase (1974-), and PsycINFO (1967-) up to 29 May 2018. We handsearched reference lists of relevant papers and previous systematic reviews. We contacted experts in the field for supplemental data. SELECTION CRITERIA: All double-blind (blinding of patients and personnel) controlled trials randomising adults with panic disorder with or without agoraphobia to benzodiazepine or placebo. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently checked the eligibility of studies and extracted data using a standardised form. Data were then entered data into Review Manager 5 using a double-check procedure. Information extracted included study characteristics, participant characteristics, intervention details, settings, and outcome measures in terms of efficacy, acceptability, and tolerability. MAIN RESULTS: We included 24 studies in the review with a total of 4233 participants, of which 2124 were randomised to benzodiazepines and 1475 to placebo. The remaining 634 participants were randomised to other active treatments in three-arm trials. We assessed the overall methodological quality of the included studies as poor. We rated all studies as at unclear risk of bias in at least three domains. In addition, we judged 20 of the 24 included studies as having a high risk of bias in at least one domain.Two primary outcomes of efficacy and acceptability showed a possible advantage of benzodiazepines over placebo. The estimated risk ratio (RR) for a response to treatment was 1.65 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.39 to 1.96) in favour of benzodiazepines, which corresponds to an estimated number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) of 4 (95% CI 3 to 7). The dropout rate was lower among participants treated with benzodiazepines (RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.39 to 0.64); the estimated NNTB was 6 (95% CI 5 to 9). We rated the quality of the evidence as low for both primary outcomes. The possible advantage of benzodiazepine was also seen for remission (RR 1.61, 95% CI 1.38 to 1.88) and the endpoint data for social functioning (standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.53, 95% CI -0.65 to -0.42), both with low-quality evidence. We assessed the evidence for the other secondary outcomes as of very low quality. With the exception of the analyses of the change score data for depression (SMD -0.22, 95% CI -0.48 to 0.04) and social functioning (SMD -0.32, 95% CI -0.88 to 0.24), all secondary outcome analyses showed an effect in favour of benzodiazepines compared to placebo. However, the number of dropouts due to adverse effects was higher with benzodiazepines than with placebo (RR 1.58, 95% CI 1.16 to 2.15; low-quality evidence). Furthermore, our analyses of adverse events showed that a higher proportion of participants experienced at least one adverse effect when treated with benzodiazepines (RR 1.18, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.37; low-quality evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Low-quality evidence shows a possible superiority of benzodiazepine over placebo in the short-term treatment of panic disorders. The validity of the included studies is questionable due to possible unmasking of allocated treatments, high dropout rates, and probable publication bias. Moreover, the included studies were only short-term studies and did not examine the long-term efficacy nor the risks of dependency and withdrawal symptoms. Due to these limitations, our results regarding the efficacy of benzodiazepines versus placebo provide only limited guidance for clinical practice. Furthermore, the clinician's choice is not between benzodiazepines and placebo, but between benzodiazepines and other agents, notably SSRIs, both in terms of efficacy and adverse effects. The choice of treatment should therefore be guided by the patient's preference and should balance benefits and harms from treatment in a long-term perspective.

Brooks, D., et al. (2018). "Effectiveness of psychosocial interventions on the psychological health and emotional well-being of family carers of people with dementia following residential care placement: a systematic review." JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep 16(5): 1240-1268.
	OBJECTIVE: To identify, appraise and synthesize existing evidence regarding the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions on the psychological health and emotional well-being of family carers of people with dementia who have moved into residential care. INTRODUCTION: Many carers experience stress, guilt, grief and depression following placement of a relative with dementia into residential care. Psychosocial interventions to support family carers may help to improve psychological health and emotional well-being; however, evidence for such interventions delivered to family carers following placement has yet to be appraised and synthesized. INCLUSION CRITERIA: Participant criteria included any family carers of people with dementia who have moved into residential or nursing or long term care. Interventions were included if they were designed to improve the psychological health and emotional well-being of family carers post-placement. Comparators included no intervention, other non-pharmacological intervention or standard/usual care. Outcomes included carer burden, anxiety, stress, depression, guilt, grief and loss, quality of life, or satisfaction with care of the person with dementia. METHODS: Key databases (PubMed, CINAHL, PsycINFO) and trials registries (Cochrane, WHO Clinical Trials, UK Clinical Trials) were searched to identify both published and unpublished studies in English from 1990 to 2017. The recommended Joanna Briggs Institute approach to critical appraisal, study selection, data extraction and data synthesis was followed. Data from studies was pooled in statistical meta-analysis where possible, and presented in narrative and tabular form otherwise. RESULTS: Four studies were eligible for inclusion. Two studies were randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of individualized multicomponent interventions, and two were cluster RCTs of group multicomponent interventions. Interventions were mostly underpinned by stress appraisal and coping theories. Outcomes measured, measurement tools and length of follow-up varied between the studies. There was high risk of selection, attrition and detection bias.A total of 302 family carers were included. For the individualized interventions, significant improvements were reported for carer guilt (F = 5.00; p = 0.03), role overload (F = 5.00; p = 0.04) and distress (F = 6.13; p = 0.02), but no significant effect was found for satisfaction with the residential care facility. Meta-analyses indicated there was no overall effect at three to four months post-intervention on carer burden (weighted mean difference 2.38; 95% CI -7.72 to 12.48), and depression (weighted mean difference 2.17; 95% CI -5.07 to 9.40). For the group interventions, no significant effects on carer distress were found; however, significant improvements in carer "heartfelt sadness" at three months post-baseline (F = 5.04; p = 0.027) and guilt at six months (F = 4.93; p = 0.029) were reported in one study. CONCLUSIONS: Individualized multicomponent psychosocial interventions following residential care placement may be beneficial in improving family carers' role overload, psychological distress and guilt. Group interventions may also improve feelings of guilt and sadness. There is insufficient evidence that individualized or group interventions improve carer depression, burden or satisfaction. However, due to substantial heterogeneity between studies and methodological flaws, the grade of this evidence is very low.Further high quality RCTs that include different groups of carers are recommended. Comparative effects of individualized versus group interventions should be examined as these are likely to have cost implications.

Bruyere, O., et al. (2017). "Skeletal health in breast cancer survivors." Maturitas 105: 78-82.
	Although some risk factors for breast cancer might be protective for osteoporosis, several cross-sectional studies have reported, nevertheless, that patients with breast cancer have a lower bone mass and potentially a higher incidence of fractures than expected. In any case, it appears that patients with breast cancer are not protected from osteoporosis, which provides further support for the recommendation that bone health is assessed after a diagnosis of breast cancer. Most adjuvant therapies will lead to increased bone loss and a higher fracture rate. Among the adjuvant therapy options for premenopausal patients with breast cancer, endocrine therapy (ovarian suppression) and chemotherapy can result in cancer treatment-induced bone loss (CTIBL) of up to 10% at the lumbar spine after one year. Antiresorptive therapies prevent CTIBL in premenopausal women with breast cancer. Most of the evidence demonstrating the efficacy of bisphosphonates in the prevention of CTIBL is derived from clinical trials with zoledronic acid. The addition of zoledronic acid 4mg per six months to adjuvant endocrine therapy maintained and even increased bone mass during a 3-year treatment period and significantly improved disease-free survival in a population of young women who underwent menopause due to the adjuvant treatment. The major contributor to bone loss in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer in postmenopausal women is the use of aromatase inhibitors (AIs). Oncology trials have underestimated the fracture risk in the setting of AI-induced bone loss. In the ABCSG-18 study, the only trial in which fracture incidence was the primary endpoint, the rate of clinical fractures was close to 10% after 3 years in the placebo group on AIs only. Bisphosphonates and denosumab at osteoporosis treatment doses can counteract AI-induced bone loss. In the ABCSG-18 trial, treatment with denosumab 60mg injection every 6 months reduced the risk of first clinical fracture relative to placebo by 50%. Current guidelines recommend antiresorptive therapy in patients with a baseline T score of <-2.0 or with two or more clinical risk factors for fracture. These recent guidelines will need to be updated, as similar significant protective effects were seen in women with either normal or low bone mass. Moreover, a formal meta-analysis of individual patient data from more than 18,000 women in 26 randomized trials of adjuvant zoledronic acid or clodronate treatment for early breast cancer revealed that bisphosphonates significantly reduced the risk of first distant recurrence in bone and the risk of breast cancer mortality, at least in postmenopausal women. Even though the increased risk of fracture during adjuvant treatment for breast cancer in postmenopausal women is notable, an enhanced risk of fracture in long-term survivors of breast cancer remains under debate. The most recent studies suggest that Caucasian breast cancer survivors do not have a significantly increased risk of osteoporotic fracture over the long term.

Buffoni, L., et al. (2016). "Adjuvant Therapy of Resected Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: can We Move Forward?" Curr Treat Options Oncol 17(10): 54.
	OPINION STATEMENT: Twenty years ago, an individual patient data meta-analysis of eight cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) studies in completely resected early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) demonstrated a 13 % reduction of the risk of death favoring chemotherapy that was of borderline statistical significance (p = 0.08). This marginal benefit boosted a new generation of randomized trials to evaluate the role of modern platinum-based regimens in resectable stages of NSCLC and, although individual studies generated conflicting results, overall they contributed to confirm the role of AC which is now recommended for completely resected stage II and III NSCLC, mostly 4 cycles, while subset analyses suggested a benefit in patients with large IB tumors. Cisplatin-based therapy was the core regimen of those adjuvant clinical trials and even if a substitution with other platinum-derived was also suggested, mainly based on extrapolated data from studies in advanced disease, cisplatin was confirmed to be slightly superior to carboplatin and is still the drug of choice in the adjuvant setting. Currently, any attempt to improve efficacy of cisplatin-based chemotherapy through antiangiogenic drugs association or pharmacogenomics approaches have failed, while results of additional studies are eagerly awaited. In the context of promising targeted therapies, even if several randomized trials in the advanced setting evaluated tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKis) versus platinum-based chemotherapy and showed impressive results, clinical experience with TKIs in the adjuvant setting is still limited and most of the trials have not required patients to be molecularly tested for the drug-specific molecular predictive factor. At the present time, the role of targeted agents as adjuvant approaches remains largely not investigated. Finally, with the negative experience of the use of vaccines in this setting, the integration of immunotherapy (mainly immunocheckpoint inhibitors) in platinum-based schedules has just started to be evaluated, representing a potential future clinical option, but still far from clinical practice.

Bush, J. T., et al. (2017). "Systematic review of clinical trials assessing the therapeutic efficacy of visceral leishmaniasis treatments: A first step to assess the feasibility of establishing an individual patient data sharing platform." PLoS Negl Trop Dis 11(9): e0005781.
	BACKGROUND: There are an estimated 200,000 to 400,000 cases of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) annually. A variety of factors are taken into account when considering the best therapeutic options to cure a patient and reduce the risk of resistance, including geographical area, malnourishment and HIV coinfection. Pooled analyses combine data from many studies to answer specific scientific questions that cannot be answered with individual studies alone. However, the heterogeneity of study design, data collection, and analysis often makes direct comparison difficult. Individual Participant Data (IPD) files can be standardised and analysed, allowing detailed analysis of this merged larger pool, but only a small fraction of systematic reviews and meta-analyses currently employ pooled analysis of IPD. We conducted a systematic literature review to identify published studies and studies reported in clinical trial registries to assess the feasibility of developing a VL data sharing platform to facilitate an IPD-based analysis of clinical trial data. Studies conducted between 1983 to 2015 that reported treatment outcome were eligible. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: From the 2,271 documents screened, 145 published VL clinical trials were identified, with data from 26,986 patients. Methodologies varied for diagnosis and treatment outcomes, but overall the volume of data potentially available on different drugs and dose regimens identified hundreds or possibly thousands of patients per arm suitable for IPD pooled meta-analyses. CONCLUSIONS: A VL data sharing platform would provide an opportunity to maximise scientific use of available data to enable assessment of treatment efficacy, contribute to evidence-based clinical management and guide optimal prospective data collection.

Cabibbo, G., et al. (2019). "Outcomes of hepatocellular carcinoma patients treated with sorafenib: a meta-analysis of Phase III trials." Future Oncol 15(29): 3411-3422.
	Aim: To benchmark overall survival (OS) and time to radiological progression (TTP) of patients enrolled in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) assessing sorafenib in advanced hepatocellular carcinoma using individual participant survival data, and to meta-analyze prognostic factors for OS and TTP. Methods: RCTs were identified through literature search until December 2018. Individual participant survival was reconstructed with an algorithm from published Kaplan-Meier curves. Results: Ten RCTs were included. Median OS was 10.0 months (95% CI: 9.6-10.5), and median TTP was 4.1 months (95% CI: 3.8-4.3). Multivariable analyses showed HCV positivity, absence of macrovascular invasion and extra-hepatic disease as predictors of longer OS. Conclusion: We provided a benchmark for future studies on sorafenib. The present results can be used in the decision making for the early shift to second-line strategy.

Caldeira, D., et al. (2016). "Safety of non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants - coronary risks." Expert Opin Drug Saf 15(6): 731-740.
	INTRODUCTION: Since the approval and commercialization of non-vitamin K antagonist oral anticoagulants (NOACs; apixaban, dabigatran, edoxaban, and rivaroxaban) several studies and meta-analyses have raised safety concerns regarding myocardial infarction (MI) risk among NOAC-treated patients, particularly with dabigatran. Uncertainty remains regarding the coronary risk associated with dabigatran, and whether this putative risk also applies to the other NOACs. AREAS COVERED: In this review, the coronary risks of NOACs based on findings from placebo-controlled trials are discussed, and randomized controlled trials and major cohort studies in AF patients are also appraised. We performed a random-effect meta-analysis, including both interventional trials and observational studies ("real-world" data). Further estimates were retrieved from the meta-analysis of coronary risk among NOAC-treated patients with concomitant AF and coronary disease. EXPERT OPINION: Currently, the best available data from both clinical trials and observational studies do not support the claim that patients treated with NOACs, including dabigatran, are at increased coronary risk. However, a definitive conclusion cannot be made (especially regarding dabigatran) and further data are required to address the coronary risks, mostly of high-risk patients. As with any therapeutic intervention, the possible complications should be balanced against the potential benefits at an individual patient level.

Camacho, M., et al. (2017). "Laser-Assisted Uvulopalatoplasty for Obstructive Sleep Apnea: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." Sleep 40(3).
	Study Objectives: Laser-assisted uvulopalatoplasty (LAUP) has been used as treatment for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). The objective of this study was to perform a systematic review and meta-analysis for LAUP alone as treatment for OSA in adults. Methods: Three authors searched five databases (including PubMed/MEDLINE) from inception through October 30, 2016 for peer-reviewed studies, with any design/language. A study quality assessment tool was used. The PRISMA statement was followed. A meta-analysis was performed. Results: Twenty-three adult studies (717 patients) reported outcomes (age: 50 +/- 9 years, body mass index: 29 +/- 4 kg/m2). The pre- and post-LAUP means (M) +/- standard deviations (SDs) for apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) were 28 +/- 13 and 19 +/- 12 events/h (32% reduction). Random effects modeling for 519 patients demonstrated an AHI mean difference (MD) of -6.56 [95% CI -10.14, -2.97] events/h. Individual patient data analyses demonstrate a 23% success rate (>/=50% reduction in AHI and <20 events/h) and an 8% cure rate. Additionally, 44% of patients had worsening of their AHI after LAUP. Lowest oxygen saturation (LSAT) improved from a M +/- SD of 80 +/- 8% to 82 +/- 7%. A limitation is that most studies were case series studies and only two were randomized controlled trials. Conclusions: In this meta-analysis, LAUP reduced AHI by 32% among all patients; while the LSAT only changed minimally. Individual data demonstrated a success rate of 23%, cure rate of 8%, and worsening of the AHI among 44% of patients. We recommend that LAUP be performed with caution or not performed at all given the unfavorable results of currently published studies.

Carlsson, L., et al. (2017). "The Cisplatin Total Dose and Concomitant Radiation in Locoregionally Advanced Head and Neck Cancer: Any Recent Evidence for Dose Efficacy?" Curr Treat Options Oncol 18(7): 39.
	OPINION STATEMENT: Concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CRT) with high-dose (100 mg/m(2)), single-agent cisplatin is considered the standard of care for locoregionally advanced head and neck cancer (LAHNC). Poor compliance often due to significant treatment-related toxicities observed during CRT regimen has stimulated research efforts to examine for evidence of the optimal cumulative cisplatin dose and schedule. The findings from this systematic literature review demonstrate that there are insufficient prospective, randomized controlled data to determine the optimal total dose (and schedule) of cisplatin to administer concomitantly with radiotherapy in the treatment of LAHNC. Given the clinical challenges associated with administering concurrent CRT with single-agent high-dose cisplatin, as well as the long-term toxicities accompanying this treatment, an examination of the available literature for evidence of dose efficacy is of continued clinical interest. Moving forward, it is critical that researchers include complete descriptions of key disease and treatment variables (i.e. treatment compliance and HPV status) to inform and strengthen clinical decisions. The substantial heterogeneity of LAHNC has led to the focus of recent research efforts to risk-stratify using a combination of clinical and molecular markers (e.g. HPV status). Thus, the optimal total dose (and schedule) of cisplatin may need to be modified to reflect the specific characteristics of the individual patient subpopulations being treated. At present, CRT remains the standard of care for LAHNC, but this field is rapidly evolving. National and international clinical trials are ongoing to evaluate treatment de-intensification in favourable risk patient subsets and treatment intensification in poor-risk patient subsets, these will provide evidence-based guidance to individualize therapy with the ultimate goal of improving patient outcomes.

Cates, J. E., et al. (2017). "Malaria, malnutrition, and birthweight: A meta-analysis using individual participant data." PLoS Med 14(8): e1002373.
	BACKGROUND: Four studies previously indicated that the effect of malaria infection during pregnancy on the risk of low birthweight (LBW; <2,500 g) may depend upon maternal nutritional status. We investigated this dependence further using a large, diverse study population. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We evaluated the interaction between maternal malaria infection and maternal anthropometric status on the risk of LBW using pooled data from 14,633 pregnancies from 13 studies (6 cohort studies and 7 randomized controlled trials) conducted in Africa and the Western Pacific from 1996-2015. Studies were identified by the Maternal Malaria and Malnutrition (M3) initiative using a convenience sampling approach and were eligible for pooling given adequate ethical approval and availability of essential variables. Study-specific adjusted effect estimates were calculated using inverse probability of treatment-weighted linear and log-binomial regression models and pooled using a random-effects model. The adjusted risk of delivering a baby with LBW was 8.8% among women with malaria infection at antenatal enrollment compared to 7.7% among uninfected women (adjusted risk ratio [aRR] 1.14 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.91, 1.42]; N = 13,613), 10.5% among women with malaria infection at delivery compared to 7.9% among uninfected women (aRR 1.32 [95% CI: 1.08, 1.62]; N = 11,826), and 15.3% among women with low mid-upper arm circumference (MUAC <23 cm) at enrollment compared to 9.5% among women with MUAC >/= 23 cm (aRR 1.60 [95% CI: 1.36, 1.87]; N = 9,008). The risk of delivering a baby with LBW was 17.8% among women with both malaria infection and low MUAC at enrollment compared to 8.4% among uninfected women with MUAC >/= 23 cm (joint aRR 2.13 [95% CI: 1.21, 3.73]; N = 8,152). There was no evidence of synergism (i.e., excess risk due to interaction) between malaria infection and MUAC on the multiplicative (p = 0.5) or additive scale (p = 0.9). Results were similar using body mass index (BMI) as an anthropometric indicator of nutritional status. Meta-regression results indicated that there may be multiplicative interaction between malaria infection at enrollment and low MUAC within studies conducted in Africa; however, this finding was not consistent on the additive scale, when accounting for multiple comparisons, or when using other definitions of malaria and malnutrition. The major limitations of the study included availability of only 2 cross-sectional measurements of malaria and the limited availability of ultrasound-based pregnancy dating to assess impacts on preterm birth and fetal growth in all studies. CONCLUSIONS: Pregnant women with malnutrition and malaria infection are at increased risk of LBW compared to women with only 1 risk factor or none, but malaria and malnutrition do not act synergistically.

Cazzola, M., et al. (2018). "Impact of erdosteine on chronic bronchitis and COPD: A meta-analysis." Pulm Pharmacol Ther 48: 185-194.
	A previous meta-analysis suggested that the treatment with erdosteine was associated with significant amelioration of the cumulative global efficacy index and symptoms in comparison to placebo or other mucolytics. However, this conclusion was criticized because the meta-analysis, as it had been done, made it impossible to preclude the potential operation of selection biases within and across trials, and identify any realised benefits of an individual patient data approach. Taking into consideration these criticisms and also the publication of two further recent articles focused on the prevention of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbations with erdosteine, we have carried out a quantitative synthesis via meta-analysis of the currently available data on the use of this drug. Our findings included data from ten studies involving 1278 patients and show that erdosteine is able to improve the clinical score of patients with chronic bronchitis and COPD, and also reduces the overall risk of chronic bronchitis/COPD exacerbations, and reduces the risk of experiencing at least one exacerbation. Furthermore, our data suggest that erdosteine can lengthen the time to the first COPD exacerbation, reduce the duration of a COPD exacerbation and the risk of hospitalization from COPD. The documented effect of erdosteine in reducing the occurence and/or influencing COPD exacerbations is important because it indicates that erdosteine can be added to the list of drugs that can be recommended for treating COPD.

Chambrone, L., et al. (2019). "The concepts of evidence-based periodontal plastic surgery: Application of the principles of evidence-based dentistry for the treatment of recession-type defects." Periodontol 2000 79(1): 81-106.
	The decision-making process for the treatment of recession-type defects is based on translation of the outcomes from randomized controlled trials and systematic reviews to clinical practice. Such an approach is capable of assisting researchers, clinicians, and patients to understand the mechanisms and effects of the treatment of different root-coverage procedures, as well as turning treatment options into usable and predictable tools to be applied in dental practice. This review explores: (a) the aspects related to the etiology of gingival recession; (b) the history of periodontal plastic surgery procedures used to achieve root coverage; (c) the main findings, implications of research, and practice of root-coverage procedures described from the current base of systematic reviews; (d) the role of the evidence produced in Latin American research centers; and (e) the outcomes of an individual patient data meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials evaluating the role of root coverage and restorative procedures in achieving complete root coverage of noncarious cervical lesions. The findings of the current base of evidence clearly indicate that all of the main periodontal plastic surgery procedures lead to improvements in initial clinical parameters, but subepithelial connective tissue grafts, either alone or associated with coronally advanced flaps, result in superior complete root coverage, long-term stability, and greater increase of keratinized tissue. Nonetheless, coronally advanced flaps, either associated with biomaterials (acellular dermal matrix grafts, enamel derivative proteins and xenogeneic collagen matrix) or used alone, provide satisfactory results and are suitable for use as secondary/alternative procedures to subepithelial connective tissue grafts.

Chang, S. S. (2017). "Re: Systematic Review and Individual Patient Data Meta-Analysis of Randomized Trials Comparing a Single Immediate Instillation of Chemotherapy after Transurethral Resection with Transurethral Resection Alone in Patients with Stage pTa-pT1 Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder: Which Patients Benefit from the Instillation?" J Urol 197(5): 1219.
	
Chen, E., et al. (2019). "A Review of Predictive Low Glucose Suspend and Its Effectiveness in Preventing Nocturnal Hypoglycemia." Diabetes Technol Ther 21(10): 602-609.
	To evaluate the effectiveness of predictive low glucose suspend (PLGS) systems within sensor-augmented insulin infusion pumps at preventing nocturnal hypoglycemia in patients with type 1 diabetes (DM1), we performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized crossover trials. Pubmed and Google Scholar were searched for randomized crossover trials, published between January 2013 and July 2018, in nonpregnant outpatients with DM1, which compared event rates during PLGS overnight periods and non-PLGS overnight periods. The primary outcome was the proportion of overnight periods with one or more hypoglycemic measurement. When available, individual patient data were used to assess the effect of clustering measurements within patients. Four studies (272 patients, 10,735 patient-nights: 5422 PLGS and 5313 non-PLGS) were included in the meta-analysis. Two studies reported patient-level data that permitted assessment of the effect of clustering measurements within patients. The effect on the risk difference was minimal. The proportion of overnight periods with one or more episodes of hypoglycemia was 19.6% for the PLGS periods and 27.8% for the non-PLGS periods. Based on the pooled estimate, PLGS overnight periods were associated with an 8.8% lower risk of hypoglycemia (risk difference -0.088; 95% CI -0.119 to -0.056, I(2) = 67.4%, tau(2) = 0.0006, 4 studies). PLGS systems can reduce nocturnal hypoglycemic events in patients with DM1.

Chen, Z., et al. (2016). "Comparison of anterior corpectomy and fusion versus laminoplasty for the treatment of cervical ossification of posterior longitudinal ligament: a meta-analysis." Neurosurg Focus 40(6): E8.
	OBJECTIVE The purpose of this study was to compare the effectiveness and safety of anterior corpectomy and fusion (ACF) with laminoplasty for the treatment of patients diagnosed with cervical ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament (OPLL). METHODS The authors searched electronic databases for relevant studies that compared the use of ACF with laminoplasty for the treatment of patients with OPLL. Data extraction and quality assessment were conducted, and statistical software was used for data analysis. The random effects model was used if there was heterogeneity between studies; otherwise, the fixed effects model was used. RESULTS A total of 10 nonrandomized controlled studies involving 819 patients were included. Postoperative Japanese Orthopaedic Association (JOA) score (p = 0.02, 95% CI 0.30-2.81) was better in the ACF group than in the laminoplasty group. The recovery rate was superior in the ACF group for patients with an occupying ratio of OPLL of >/= 60% (p < 0.00001, 95% CI 21.27-34.44) and for patients with kyphotic alignment (p < 0.00001, 95% CI 16.49-27.17). Data analysis also showed that the ACF group was associated with a higher incidence of complications (p = 0.02, 95% CI 1.08-2.59) and reoperations (p = 0.002, 95% CI 1.83-14.79), longer operation time (p = 0.01, 95% CI 17.72 -160.75), and more blood loss (p = 0.0004, 95% CI 42.22-148.45). CONCLUSIONS For patients with an occupying ratio >/= 60% or with kyphotic cervical alignment, ACF appears to be the preferable treatment method. Nevertheless, laminoplasty seems to be effective and safe enough for patients with an occupying ratio < 60% or with adequate cervical lordosis. However, it must be emphasized that a surgical strategy should be made based on the individual patient. Further randomized controlled trials comparing the use of ACF with laminoplasty for the treatment of OPLL should be performed to make a more convincing conclusion.

Cheng, K., et al. (2019). "Green tea extract for treatment of cancers: A systematic review protocol." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(15): e15117.
	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical studies suggested that green tea extract (GTE) may benefit patients with a variety of cancers. However, its efficacy is still inconclusive. Thus, the objective of this study will systematically collate the clinical studies testing its efficacy and safety for cancers. METHODS: We will perform a systematic review of clinical studies assessing the efficacy of GTE in variety of cancers. We will search Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), EMBASE, MEDILINE, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED), and Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM) using a comprehensive strategy. We will also screen the reference lists of relevant studies to identify any additional studies for potential inclusion. All databases will be searched up to February 1, 2019. All eligible case-control studies and randomized controlled trials will be included in this study. Two independent authors will review all searched literature. Upon inclusion of trials, we will extract data by using a predefined standardized form. The risk of bias assessment will be evaluated by using Cochrane risk of bias tool. We will use RevMan 5.3 software to pool the data and carry out meta-analysis. RESULTS: The primary outcome includes overall response rate. The secondary outcomes comprise of overall survival, progression-free survival, the disease control rate, and any adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study will contribute to the understanding of the efficacy of GTE in the setting of cancers and promote future research of GTE in patients with cancers. DISSEMINATION AND ETHICS: The results of this systematic review are expected to be published through peer-reviewed journals. This study does not need ethic approval, because it does not utilize individual patient data. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42019125111.

Cho, S. S., et al. (2019). "Clazosentan for Aneurysmal Subarachnoid Hemorrhage: An Updated Meta-Analysis with Trial Sequential Analysis." World Neurosurg 123: 418-424.e413.
	OBJECTIVE: Clazosentan, an endothelin receptor antagonist, reduced vasospasm and delayed ischemic neurologic deficit (DIND) but did not improve outcome after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in clinical trials. However, a lack of dose-dependent analysis and potential overestimation of clazosentan's effect are concerning. We used stratified analysis and trial sequential analysis (TSA) of existing data to investigate the effects of clazosentan on SAH outcome. METHODS: Studies from PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane were reviewed for eligibility. Primary outcomes were DIND requiring rescue therapy, all-cause mortality, and vasospasm-related morbidity at 6 weeks. Secondary outcomes were moderate-to-severe angiographic vasospasm, new cerebral infarction, and poor clinical outcome at 3 months. TSA was performed to assess the required information size and the alpha-spending monitoring boundary effect of relative risk (RR) reduction. A stratified analysis of clazosentan dosage was performed. RESULTS: Five studies (N = 2317) were included. Clazosentan significantly reduced the risk of DIND requiring rescue therapy (RR, 0.625; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.462-0.846) and vasospasm (RR, 0.543; 95% CI, 0.464-0.635), but did not significantly affect mortality or vasospasm-related morbidity (RR, 0.775; 95% CI, 0.578-1.039), new cerebral infarction (RR, 0.604; 95% CI, 0.383-0.952), or outcome (RR, 1.131; 95% CI, 0.959-1.334). TSA revealed that the studies were underpowered to evaluate the effects of clazosentan on mortality and vasospasm-associated morbidity. We found 10-15 mg/h of clazosentan administration was associated with lower rates of vasospasm and new cerebral infarctions compared with 5 mg/h. CONCLUSIONS: Clazosentan reduced the risk of DIND requiring rescue therapy and moderate-to-severe vasospasm. Further meta-analyses based on individual patient data with different clazosentan doses and more refined outcome measures are necessary to clarify clazosentan's efficacy in improving post-SAH outcome.

Chohan, A., et al. (2015). "Systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials on the role of mometasone in adenoid hypertrophy in children." Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol 79(10): 1599-1608.
	OBJECTIVES: Mometasone has been reported to improve the symptoms of nasal obstruction in children with adenoidal hypertrophy. This systematic review and meta-analysis were conducted to evaluate the role of mometasone on different nasal symptoms, otitis media with effusion, adenoid size, and quality of life in children with adenoidal hypertrophy. METHODS: A comprehensive search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and COCHRANE Collaboration databases was undertaken. We identified all the randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in children with adenoidal hypertrophy that compared the effects of mometasone nasal spray and normal saline nasal spray on different outcomes. The deadline of the search was April 2015. The search was supplemented by hand searching of cross-references in the studies and reviews and by contacting the authors of various studies. Only English language RCTs were considered for the systematic review. The primary outcomes were improvement in symptoms of nasal obstruction, mouth breathing, rhinorrhea, snoring, cough, and total nasal symptoms. The secondary outcomes were improvement in otitis media with effusion, quality of life, and size of adenoid. Quality assessment of RCTs was performed using SIGN 50 and Cochrane risk of bias tools. Risk ratio (RR), weighted mean differences (WMD) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated for dichotomous and continuous data, respectively. Random effects model was used for the analyses. Heterogeneity was measured by using the I(2) statistics and p value <0.05. RESULTS: Our search generated 87 citations, of which eight RCTs met the inclusion criteria. The methodological quality of all the RCTs was poor. There was no significant difference between mometasone and control groups for the patient's characteristic and grades of different nasal symptoms, otitis media with effusion, obstructive sleep apnea, and quality of life at the basal level. There was also no significant difference in the number of patients with different symptoms at the basal level. After the administration of mometasone, there were significant improvements in grades of nasal obstruction, 0.8+/-0.5 versus 2.0+/-0.6, WMD -1.16 [-2.09, -0.23], snoring 0.3+/-0.4 versus 1.6+/-0.6, WMD -1.07 [-2.09, -0.05], total nasal symptoms 2.9+/-1.3 versus 6.9+/-1.5, WMD -4.09 [-6.64, -1.53], obstructive sleep apnea, 0.6+/-0.3 versus 1.4+/-0.4, WMD -0.95 [-1.74, -0.16], as well as the percentage of patients with nasal obstruction, snoring, obstructive sleep apnea, compared to control. There was tendency of improvement in rhinorrhea, and cough with mometasone. Compared to control, mometasone nasal spray significantly improved adenoid size or adenoid/choana ratio 50.9+/-8.8 versus 74.2+/-12.6, WMD -21.2 [-34.0, -8.4], change in adenoid/choana obstruction from the basal level (p=0.01), and percentage of patients with adenoid hypertrophy, 26% versus 92%, RR 0.29 [0.18, 0.48]. There was improvement in otitis media with effusion, 40% versus 72%, pure tone audiometry 5.2+/-11 versus 11.6+/-11dB, WMD -6.40dB [-12.65, -0.15], and quality of life with mometasone. Subgroup analyses showed that RCTs that followed blinding showed significantly less response compared to RCTs that did not follow it for most of the outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: Mometasone caused improvements in outcomes of nasal obstruction, snoring, total nasal symptoms, pure tune audiometry, otitis media with effusion, adenoid size, and quality of life. The data is based on meta-analysis of RCTs of poor methodological quality. A high methodological quality, placebo controlled RCT of different doses and duration of administration of mometasone is required to evaluate its clear efficacy and safety in children with adenoid hypertrophy.

Choi, S. E., et al. (2019). "Personalizing Second-Line Type 2 Diabetes Treatment Selection: Combining Network Meta-analysis, Individualized Risk, and Patient Preferences for Unified Decision Support." Med Decis Making 39(3): 239-252.
	BACKGROUND: Personalizing medical treatment often requires practitioners to compare multiple treatment options, assess a patient's unique risk and benefit from each option, and elicit a patient's preferences around treatment. We integrated these 3 considerations into a decision-modeling framework for the selection of second-line glycemic therapy for type 2 diabetes. METHODS: Based on multicriteria decision analysis, we developed a unified treatment decision support tool accounting for 3 factors: patient preferences, disease outcomes, and medication efficacy and safety profiles. By standardizing and multiplying these 3 factors, we calculated the ranking score for each medication. This approach was applied to determining second-line glycemic therapy by integrating 1) treatment efficacy and side-effect data from a network meta-analysis of 301 randomized trials ( N = 219,277), 2) validated risk equations for type 2 diabetes complications, and 3) patient preferences around treatment (e.g., to avoid daily glucose testing). Data from participants with type 2 diabetes in the U.S. National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES 2003-2014, N = 1107) were used to explore variations in treatment recommendations and associated quality-adjusted life-years given different patient features. RESULTS: Patients at the highest microvascular disease risk had glucagon-like peptide 1 agonists or basal insulin recommended as top choices, whereas those wanting to avoid an injected medication or daily glucose testing had sodium-glucose linked transporter 2 or dipeptidyl peptidase 4 inhibitors commonly recommended, and those with major cost concerns had sulfonylureas commonly recommended. By converting from the most common sulfonylurea treatment to the model-recommended treatment, NHANES participants were expected to save an average of 0.036 quality-adjusted life-years per person (about a half month) from 10 years of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Models can help integrate meta-analytic treatment effect estimates with individualized risk calculations and preferences, to aid personalized treatment selection.

Chollat, C., et al. (2018). "Fetal Neuroprotection by Magnesium Sulfate: From Translational Research to Clinical Application." Front Neurol 9: 247.
	Despite improvements in perinatal care, preterm birth still occurs regularly and the associated brain injury and adverse neurological outcomes remain a persistent challenge. Antenatal magnesium sulfate administration is an intervention with demonstrated neuroprotective effects for preterm births before 32 weeks of gestation (WG). Owing to its biological properties, including its action as an N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor blocker and its anti-inflammatory effects, magnesium is a good candidate for neuroprotection. In hypoxia models, including hypoxia-ischemia, inflammation, and excitotoxicity in various species (mice, rats, pigs), magnesium sulfate preconditioning decreased the induced lesions' sizes and inflammatory cytokine levels, prevented cell death, and improved long-term behavior. In humans, some observational studies have demonstrated reduced risks of cerebral palsy after antenatal magnesium sulfate therapy. Meta-analyses of five randomized controlled trials using magnesium sulfate as a neuroprotectant showed amelioration of cerebral palsy at 2 years. A meta-analysis of individual participant data from these trials showed an equally strong decrease in cerebral palsy and the combined risk of fetal/infant death and cerebral palsy at 2 years. The benefit remained similar regardless of gestational age, cause of prematurity, and total dose received. These data support the use of a minimal dose (e.g., 4 g loading dose +/- 1 g/h maintenance dose over 12 h) to avoid potential deleterious effects. Antenatal magnesium sulfate is now recommended by the World Health Organization and many pediatric and obstetrical societies, and it is requisite to maximize its administration among women at risk of preterm delivery before 32 WG.

Choy, E., et al. (2019). "The need for comparative data in spondyloarthritis." Arthritis Res Ther 21(1): 32.
	Spondyloarthritis comprises a group of inflammatory diseases, characterised by inflammation within axial joints and/or peripheral arthritis, enthesitis and dactylitis. An increasing number of biologic treatments, including biosimilars, are available for the treatment of spondyloarthritis. Although there are a growing number of randomised controlled trials assessing treatments in spondyloarthritis, there is a paucity of data from head-to-head studies. Comparative data are required so that clinicians and payers have the level of evidence required to inform clinical decision-making and health economic assessments. In the absence of head-to-head studies, statistical methods such as network meta-analyses and matching-adjusted indirect comparisons (MAICs) are used for assessing comparative effectiveness.Network meta-analysis can be used to compare treatments for trials using a common comparator (e.g. placebo); however, for those without a common comparator or where considerable heterogeneity exists between the study populations, a MAIC that controls for differences in study design and baseline patient characteristics may be used. MAICs, unlike network meta-analyses, are of value for longer-term comparisons beyond the placebo-controlled phase of clinical trials, which is important for chronic diseases requiring long-term treatment, like spondyloarthritis. At present, there are a number of limitations that restrict the effectiveness of MAIC, such as the poor availability of individual patient-level data from trials, which results in patient-level data from one trial being compared with published whole-population data from another. Despite these limitations, drug reimbursement agencies are increasingly accepting MAIC as a means of comparative effectiveness and greater methodological guidance is needed.This report highlights a number of challenges that are specific to conducting comparative studies like MAIC in spondyloarthritis, including disease heterogeneity, the paucity of biomarkers and the duration of studies required for radiographic endpoints in this slow-progressing disease.

Coca, A. and M. Domenech (2019). "How to implement the recommendations of the 2018 ESC/ESH Hypertension Guidelines in a given patient: a step by step approach." Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Pharmacother 5(3): 164-170.
	All clinical guidelines release general recommendations based on the best available evidence on the issue, usually obtained from epidemiological studies, randomized clinical trials, or meta-analyses. However, the final data of these studies are averages of a given parameter from groups of patients whose clinical characteristics are not necessarily similar to those of a specific patient seen in daily practice. As the guidelines recommendations have to be implemented in patients, not in group of patients, the final decisions concerning an individual patient must be made by the attending physician, in consultation with the patient and caregiver, as appropriate. In this article, a clinical case of a patient with hypertension and other associated cardiovascular risk factors is discussed and managed following the recommendations of the 2018 ESC/ESH Hypertension Guidelines implemented in this specific patient.

Conde-Agudelo, A., et al. (2018). "Vaginal progesterone is as effective as cervical cerclage to prevent preterm birth in women with a singleton gestation, previous spontaneous preterm birth, and a short cervix: updated indirect comparison meta-analysis." Am J Obstet Gynecol 219(1): 10-25.
	BACKGROUND: An indirect comparison meta-analysis published in 2013 reported that both vaginal progesterone and cerclage are equally efficacious for preventing preterm birth and adverse perinatal outcomes in women with a singleton gestation, previous spontaneous preterm birth, and a sonographic short cervix. The efficacy of vaginal progesterone has been challenged after publication of the OPPTIMUM study. However, this has been resolved by an individual patient-data meta-analysis (Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2018;218:161-180). OBJECTIVE: To compare the efficacy of vaginal progesterone and cerclage in preventing preterm birth and adverse perinatal outcomes in women with a singleton gestation, previous spontaneous preterm birth, and a midtrimester sonographic short cervix. DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, LILACS, and CINAHL (from their inception to March 2018); Cochrane databases, bibliographies, and conference proceedings. STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: Randomized controlled trials comparing vaginal progesterone to placebo/no treatment or cerclage to no cerclage in women with a singleton gestation, previous spontaneous preterm birth, and a sonographic cervical length <25 mm. STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: Updated systematic review and adjusted indirect comparison meta-analysis of vaginal progesterone vs cerclage using placebo/no cerclage as the common comparator. The primary outcomes were preterm birth <35 weeks of gestation and perinatal mortality. Pooled relative risks (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals were calculated. RESULTS: Five trials comparing vaginal progesterone vs placebo (265 women) and 5 comparing cerclage vs no cerclage (504 women) were included. Vaginal progesterone, compared to placebo, significantly reduced the risk of preterm birth <35 and <32 weeks of gestation, composite perinatal morbidity/mortality, neonatal sepsis, composite neonatal morbidity, and admission to the neonatal intensive care unit (RRs from 0.29 to 0.68). Cerclage, compared to no cerclage, significantly decreased the risk of preterm birth <37, <35, <32, and <28 weeks of gestation, composite perinatal morbidity/mortality, and birthweight <1500 g (RRs from 0.64 to 0.70). Adjusted indirect comparison meta-analyses did not show statistically significant differences between vaginal progesterone and cerclage in the reduction of preterm birth or adverse perinatal outcomes. CONCLUSION: Vaginal progesterone and cerclage are equally effective for preventing preterm birth and improving perinatal outcomes in women with a singleton gestation, previous spontaneous preterm birth, and a midtrimester sonographic short cervix. The choice of treatment will depend on adverse events and cost-effectiveness of interventions and patient/physician's preferences.

Cope, S., et al. (2015). "Critical appraisal of network meta-analyses evaluating the efficacy and safety of new oral anticoagulants in atrial fibrillation stroke prevention trials." Value Health 18(2): 234-249.
	OBJECTIVES: To critically appraise published network meta-analyses (NMAs) evaluating the efficacy or safety of the new oral anticogulants (NOACs) dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban for the prevention of stroke in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (AF). METHODS: A systematic literature review was performed to identify the relevant NMAs using MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, and Health Technology Assessment. The synthesis studies were evaluated using the "Questionnaire to assess the relevance and credibility of the NMA." RESULTS: Eleven NMAs evaluating NOACs among adults with nonvalvular AF were identified. Most NMAs included three large phase III randomized controlled trials, comparing NOACs to adjusted-dose warfarin (Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy [RE-LY], Rivaroxaban Once Daily Oral Direct Factor Xa Inhibition Compared With Vitamin K Antagonism for Prevention of Stroke and Embolism Trial in Atrial Fibrillation [ROCKET-AF], and Apixaban for Reduction of Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation [ARISTOTLE]). The main differences identified related to potential treatment effect modifiers regarding the mean time spent in therapeutic range (TTR) in the warfarin arm, the risk of stroke or systemic embolism across the trials (mean CHADS2 score: C = congestive heart failure, H = hypertension, A = older than age 75 years, D = diabetes mellitus, S2 = prior stroke or history of transient ischemic attack) or primary versus secondary prevention, and type of populations used in the analysis. Kansal et al. [Kansal AR, Sharma M, Bradley-Kennedy C, et al. Dabigatran versus rivaroxaban for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial fibrillation in Canada: comparative efficacy and cost-effectiveness. Thromb Haemost 2012;108:672-82] appropriately adjusted the ROCKET-AF TTR to match the RE-LY population on the basis of individual patient data. Meta-regressions are not expected to minimize confounding bias given limited data, whereas subgroup analyses had some impact on the point estimates for the treatment comparisons. CONCLUSIONS: Results of the synthesis studies were generally comparable and suggested that the NOACs had similar efficacy, although some differences were identified depending on the outcome. The extent to which differences in the distribution of TTR, CHADS2 score, or primary versus secondary prevention biased the results remains unclear.

Cornelius, V. R., et al. (2018). "Automated recruitment and randomisation for an efficient randomised controlled trial in primary care." Trials 19(1): 341.
	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Use of electronic health records and information technology to deliver more efficient clinical trials is attracting the attention of research funders and researchers. We report on methodological issues and data quality for a comparison of 'automated' and manual (or 'in-practice') methods for recruitment and randomisation in a large randomised controlled trial, with individual patient allocation in primary care. METHODS: We conducted a three-arm randomised controlled trial in primary care to evaluate interventions to improve the uptake of invited NHS health checks for cardiovascular risk assessment. Eligible participants were identified using a borough-wide health check management information system. An in-practice recruitment and randomisation method used at 12 general practices required the research team to complete monthly visits to each general practice. For the fully automated method, employed for six general practices, randomisation of eligible participants was performed automatically and remotely using a bespoke algorithm embedded in the health check management information system. RESULTS: There were 8588 and 4093 participants recruited for the manual and automated methods, respectively. The in-practice method was ready for implementation 3 months sooner than the automated method and the in-practice method allowed for full control and documentation of the randomisation procedure. However the in-practice approach was labour intensive and the requirement for participant records to be stored locally resulted in the loss of data for 10 practice months. No records for participants allocated using the automated method were lost. A fixed-effects meta-analysis showed that effect estimates for the primary outcome were consistent for the two allocation methods. CONCLUSIONS: This trial demonstrated the feasibility of automated recruitment and randomisation methods into a randomised controlled trial performed in primary care. Future research should explore the application of these techniques in other clinical contexts and health care settings. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials, ID: ISRCTN42856343 . Registered on 21 March 2013.

Crowther, C. A., et al. (2017). "Vaginal progesterone pessaries for pregnant women with a previous preterm birth to prevent neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (the PROGRESS Study): A multicentre, randomised, placebo-controlled trial." PLoS Med 14(9): e1002390.
	BACKGROUND: Neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, as a consequence of preterm birth, is a major cause of early mortality and morbidity. The withdrawal of progesterone, either actual or functional, is thought to be an antecedent to the onset of labour. There remains limited information on clinically relevant health outcomes as to whether vaginal progesterone may be of benefit for pregnant women with a history of a previous preterm birth, who are at high risk of a recurrence. Our primary aim was to assess whether the use of vaginal progesterone pessaries in women with a history of previous spontaneous preterm birth reduced the risk and severity of respiratory distress syndrome in their infants, with secondary aims of examining the effects on other neonatal morbidities and maternal health and assessing the adverse effects of treatment. METHODS: Women with a live singleton or twin pregnancy between 18 to <24 weeks' gestation and a history of prior preterm birth at less than 37 weeks' gestation in the preceding pregnancy, where labour occurred spontaneously or in association with cervical incompetence or following preterm prelabour rupture of the membranes, were eligible. Women were recruited from 39 Australian, New Zealand, and Canadian maternity hospitals and assigned by randomisation to vaginal progesterone pessaries (equivalent to 100 mg vaginal progesterone) (n = 398) or placebo (n = 389). Participants and investigators were masked to the treatment allocation. The primary outcome was respiratory distress syndrome and severity. Secondary outcomes were other respiratory morbidities; other adverse neonatal outcomes; adverse outcomes for the woman, especially related to preterm birth; and side effects of progesterone treatment. Data were analysed for all the 787 women (100%) randomised and their 799 infants. FINDINGS: Most women used their allocated study treatment (740 women, 94.0%), with median use similar for both study groups (51.0 days, interquartile range [IQR] 28.0-69.0, in the progesterone group versus 52.0 days, IQR 27.0-76.0, in the placebo group). The incidence of respiratory distress syndrome was similar in both study groups-10.5% (42/402) in the progesterone group and 10.6% (41/388) in the placebo group (adjusted relative risk [RR] 0.98, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.64-1.49, p = 0.912)-as was the severity of any neonatal respiratory disease (adjusted treatment effect 1.02, 95% CI 0.69-1.53, p = 0.905). No differences were seen between study groups for other respiratory morbidities and adverse infant outcomes, including serious infant composite outcome (155/406 [38.2%] in the progesterone group and 152/393 [38.7%] in the placebo group, adjusted RR 0.98, 95% CI 0.82-1.17, p = 0.798). The proportion of infants born before 37 weeks' gestation was similar in both study groups (148/406 [36.5%] in the progesterone group and 146/393 [37.2%] in the placebo group, adjusted RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.81-1.17, p = 0.765). A similar proportion of women in both study groups had maternal morbidities, especially those related to preterm birth, or experienced side effects of treatment. In 9.9% (39/394) of the women in the progesterone group and 7.3% (28/382) of the women in the placebo group, treatment was stopped because of side effects (adjusted RR 1.35, 95% CI 0.85-2.15, p = 0.204). The main limitation of the study was that almost 9% of the women did not start the medication or forgot to use it 3 or more times a week. CONCLUSIONS: Our results do not support the use of vaginal progesterone pessaries in women with a history of a previous spontaneous preterm birth to reduce the risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome or other neonatal and maternal morbidities related to preterm birth. Individual participant data meta-analysis of the relevant trials may identify specific women for whom vaginal progesterone might be of benefit. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Clinical Trials ISRCTN20269066.

Cui, Y., et al. (2020). "The effect of perioperative anesthetics for prevention of postoperative delirium on general anesthesia: A network meta-analysis." J Clin Anesth 59: 89-98.
	STUDY OBJECTIVE: Postoperative delirium (POD) is a common neurological system disorder in surgical patients. Anesthesia providers have a wide choice of sedative agents involving different mechanisms in clinical practice, and the incidence of POD varies regarding which sedative agent administered. This network meta-analysis aimed to comprehensively analyze the safety and efficacy of each choice for patients. DESIGN: A network meta-analysis. SETTING: Vanderbilt University Medical Center. MEASUREMENTS: We searched PubMed, EMBASE, Ovid Medline and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) through the end of September 2018 with the registration number CRD42018110585. The randomized controlled trials were identified and extracted by two reviewers independently. Commonly used sedative agents such as placebo, sevoflurane, desflurane, isoflurane, dexmedetomidine, propofol, midazolam, and ketamine were assessed in this network meta-analysis and the primary outcome was the incidence of POD. The data were synthesized by network meta-analysis. Pair-wise meta-analyses were conducted using the random-effects model. Each intervention was ranked according to its corresponding surface under the cumulative ranking curve (SUCRA) values. The GRADE framework was undertaken to evaluate the risk of bias. MAIN RESULTS: We identified 39 RCTs and 5991 patients in this meta-analysis. Dexmedetomidine was found to be the most effective option in reducing POD, compared to midazolam, propofol, desflurane, and sevoflurane. The results revealed that dexmedetomidine was associated with a lower incidence of POD, whereas midazolam was associated with a significantly higher number of patients with delirium. Midazolam and propofol were also associated with a higher incidence of perioperative hypotension and bradycardia. CONCLUSION: Our study provided meta-analytic evidence and suggested dexmedetomidine could be considered as the most effective sedative agent to reduce POD. However, clinical practitioners still need to weigh the pros and cons before choosing a sedative agent for individual patient.

da Costa, B. R., et al. (2016). "RETRACTED: Effectiveness of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the treatment of pain in knee and hip osteoarthritis: a network meta-analysis." Lancet 387(10033): 2093-2105.
	BACKGROUND: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the backbone of osteoarthritis pain management. We aimed to assess the effectiveness of different preparations and doses of NSAIDs on osteoarthritis pain in a network meta-analysis. METHODS: For this network meta-analysis, we considered randomised trials comparing any of the following interventions: NSAIDs, paracetamol, or placebo, for the treatment of osteoarthritis pain. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and the reference lists of relevant articles for trials published between Jan 1, 1980, and Feb 24, 2015, with at least 100 patients per group. The prespecified primary and secondary outcomes were pain and physical function, and were extracted in duplicate for up to seven timepoints after the start of treatment. We used an extension of multivariable Bayesian random effects models for mixed multiple treatment comparisons with a random effect at the level of trials. For the primary analysis, a random walk of first order was used to account for multiple follow-up outcome data within a trial. Preparations that used different total daily dose were considered separately in the analysis. To assess a potential dose-response relation, we used preparation-specific covariates assuming linearity on log relative dose. FINDINGS: We identified 8973 manuscripts from our search, of which 74 randomised trials with a total of 58,556 patients were included in this analysis. 23 nodes concerning seven different NSAIDs or paracetamol with specific daily dose of administration or placebo were considered. All preparations, irrespective of dose, improved point estimates of pain symptoms when compared with placebo. For six interventions (diclofenac 150 mg/day, etoricoxib 30 mg/day, 60 mg/day, and 90 mg/day, and rofecoxib 25 mg/day and 50 mg/day), the probability that the difference to placebo is at or below a prespecified minimum clinically important effect for pain reduction (effect size [ES] -0.37) was at least 95%. Among maximally approved daily doses, diclofenac 150 mg/day (ES -0.57, 95% credibility interval [CrI] -0.69 to -0.46) and etoricoxib 60 mg/day (ES -0.58, -0.73 to -0.43) had the highest probability to be the best intervention, both with 100% probability to reach the minimum clinically important difference. Treatment effects increased as drug dose increased, but corresponding tests for a linear dose effect were significant only for celecoxib (p=0.030), diclofenac (p=0.031), and naproxen (p=0.026). We found no evidence that treatment effects varied over the duration of treatment. Model fit was good, and between-trial heterogeneity and inconsistency were low in all analyses. All trials were deemed to have a low risk of bias for blinding of patients. Effect estimates did not change in sensitivity analyses with two additional statistical models and accounting for methodological quality criteria in meta-regression analysis. INTERPRETATION: On the basis of the available data, we see no role for single-agent paracetamol for the treatment of patients with osteoarthritis irrespective of dose. We provide sound evidence that diclofenac 150 mg/day is the most effective NSAID available at present, in terms of improving both pain and function. Nevertheless, in view of the safety profile of these drugs, physicians need to consider our results together with all known safety information when selecting the preparation and dose for individual patients. FUNDING: Swiss National Science Foundation (grant number 405340-104762) and Arco Foundation, Switzerland.

da Costa, B. R., et al. (2017). "Effectiveness of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the treatment of pain in knee and hip osteoarthritis: a network meta-analysis." Lancet 390(10090): e21-e33.
	BACKGROUND: Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the backbone of osteoarthritis pain management. We aimed to assess the effectiveness of different preparations and doses of NSAIDs on osteoarthritis pain in a network meta-analysis. METHODS: For this network meta-analysis, we considered randomised trials comparing any of the following interventions: NSAIDs, paracetamol, or placebo, for the treatment of osteoarthritis pain. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and the reference lists of relevant articles for trials published between Jan 1, 1980, and Feb 24, 2015, with at least 100 patients per group. The prespecified primary and secondary outcomes were pain and physical function, and were extracted in duplicate for up to seven timepoints after the start of treatment. We used an extension of multivariable Bayesian random effects models for mixed multiple treatment comparisons with a random effect at the level of trials. For the primary analysis, a random walk of first order was used to account for multiple follow-up outcome data within a trial. Preparations that used different total daily dose were considered separately in the analysis. To assess a potential dose-response relation, we used preparation-specific covariates assuming linearity on log relative dose. FINDINGS: We identified 8973 manuscripts from our search, of which 76 randomised trials with a total of 58 451 patients were included in this analysis. 23 nodes concerning seven different NSAIDs or paracetamol with specific daily dose of administration or placebo were considered. All preparations, irrespective of dose, improved point estimates of pain symptoms when compared with placebo. For six interventions (diclofenac 150 mg/day, etoricoxib 30 mg/day, 60 mg/day, and 90 mg/day, and rofecoxib 25 mg/day and 50 mg/day), the probability that the difference to placebo is at or below a prespecified minimum clinically important effect for pain reduction (effect size [ES] -0.37) was at least 95%. Among maximally approved daily doses, diclofenac 150 mg/day (ES -0.57, 95% credibility interval [CrI] -0.69 to -0.45) and etoricoxib 60 mg/day (ES -0.58, -0.74 to -0.43) had the highest probability to be the best intervention, both with 100% probability to reach the minimum clinically important difference. Treatment effects increased as drug dose increased, but corresponding tests for a linear dose effect were significant only for naproxen (p=0.034). We found no evidence that treatment effects varied over the duration of treatment. Model fit was good, and between-trial heterogeneity and inconsistency were low in all analyses. All trials were deemed to have a low risk of bias for blinding of patients. Effect estimates did not change in sensitivity analyses with two additional statistical models and accounting for methodological quality criteria in meta-regression analysis. INTERPRETATION: On the basis of the available data, we see no role for single-agent paracetamol for the treatment of patients with osteoarthritis irrespective of dose. We provide sound evidence that diclofenac 150 mg/day is the most effective NSAID available at present, in terms of improving both pain and function. Nevertheless, in view of the safety profile of these drugs, physicians need to consider our results together with all known safety information when selecting the preparation and dose for individual patients. FUNDING: Swiss National Science Foundation (grant number 405340-104762) and Arco Foundation, Switzerland.

da Costa, B. R. and A. J. Sutton (2019). "A comparison of the statistical performance of different meta-analysis models for the synthesis of subgroup effects from randomized clinical trials." BMC Med Res Methodol 19(1): 198.
	BACKGROUND: When investigating subgroup effects in meta-analysis, it is unclear whether accounting in meta-regression for between-trial variation in treatment effects, but not between-trial variation in treatment interaction effects when such effects are present, leads to biased estimates, coverage problems, or wrong standard errors, and whether the use of aggregate data (AD) or individual-patient-data (IPD) influences this assessment. METHODS: Seven different models were compared in a simulation study. Models differed regarding the use of AD or IPD, whether they accounted for between-trial variation in interaction effects, and whether they minimized the risk of ecological fallacy. RESULTS: Models that used IPD and that allowed for between-trial variation of the interaction effect had less bias, better coverage, and more accurate standard errors than models that used AD or ignored this variation. The main factor influencing the performance of models was whether they used IPD or AD. The model that used AD had a considerably worse performance than all models that used IPD, especially when a low number of trials was included in the analysis. CONCLUSIONS: The results indicate that IPD models that allow for the between-trial variation in interaction effects should be given preference whenever investigating subgroup effects within a meta-analysis.

Dagne, G. A., et al. (2016). "Testing moderation in network meta-analysis with individual participant data." Stat Med 35(15): 2485-2502.
	Meta-analytic methods for combining data from multiple intervention trials are commonly used to estimate the effectiveness of an intervention. They can also be extended to study comparative effectiveness, testing which of several alternative interventions is expected to have the strongest effect. This often requires network meta-analysis (NMA), which combines trials involving direct comparison of two interventions within the same trial and indirect comparisons across trials. In this paper, we extend existing network methods for main effects to examining moderator effects, allowing for tests of whether intervention effects vary for different populations or when employed in different contexts. In addition, we study how the use of individual participant data may increase the sensitivity of NMA for detecting moderator effects, as compared with aggregate data NMA that employs study-level effect sizes in a meta-regression framework. A new NMA diagram is proposed. We also develop a generalized multilevel model for NMA that takes into account within-trial and between-trial heterogeneity and can include participant-level covariates. Within this framework, we present definitions of homogeneity and consistency across trials. A simulation study based on this model is used to assess effects on power to detect both main and moderator effects. Results show that power to detect moderation is substantially greater when applied to individual participant data as compared with study-level effects. We illustrate the use of this method by applying it to data from a classroom-based randomized study that involved two sub-trials, each comparing interventions that were contrasted with separate control groups. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Dahal, P., et al. (2015). "Clinical determinants of early parasitological response to ACTs in African patients with uncomplicated falciparum malaria: a literature review and meta-analysis of individual patient data." BMC Med 13: 212.
	BACKGROUND: Artemisinin-resistant Plasmodium falciparum has emerged in the Greater Mekong sub-region and poses a major global public health threat. Slow parasite clearance is a key clinical manifestation of reduced susceptibility to artemisinin. This study was designed to establish the baseline values for clearance in patients from Sub-Saharan African countries with uncomplicated malaria treated with artemisinin-based combination therapies (ACTs). METHODS: A literature review in PubMed was conducted in March 2013 to identify all prospective clinical trials (uncontrolled trials, controlled trials and randomized controlled trials), including ACTs conducted in Sub-Saharan Africa, between 1960 and 2012. Individual patient data from these studies were shared with the WorldWide Antimalarial Resistance Network (WWARN) and pooled using an a priori statistical analytical plan. Factors affecting early parasitological response were investigated using logistic regression with study sites fitted as a random effect. The risk of bias in included studies was evaluated based on study design, methodology and missing data. RESULTS: In total, 29,493 patients from 84 clinical trials were included in the analysis, treated with artemether-lumefantrine (n = 13,664), artesunate-amodiaquine (n = 11,337) and dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine (n = 4,492). The overall parasite clearance rate was rapid. The parasite positivity rate (PPR) decreased from 59.7 % (95 % CI: 54.5-64.9) on day 1 to 6.7 % (95 % CI: 4.8-8.7) on day 2 and 0.9 % (95 % CI: 0.5-1.2) on day 3. The 95th percentile of observed day 3 PPR was 5.3 %. Independent risk factors predictive of day 3 positivity were: high baseline parasitaemia (adjusted odds ratio (AOR) = 1.16 (95 % CI: 1.08-1.25); per 2-fold increase in parasite density, P <0.001); fever (>37.5 degrees C) (AOR = 1.50 (95 % CI: 1.06-2.13), P = 0.022); severe anaemia (AOR = 2.04 (95 % CI: 1.21-3.44), P = 0.008); areas of low/moderate transmission setting (AOR = 2.71 (95 % CI: 1.38-5.36), P = 0.004); and treatment with the loose formulation of artesunate-amodiaquine (AOR = 2.27 (95 % CI: 1.14-4.51), P = 0.020, compared to dihydroartemisinin-piperaquine). CONCLUSIONS: The three ACTs assessed in this analysis continue to achieve rapid early parasitological clearance across the sites assessed in Sub-Saharan Africa. A threshold of 5 % day 3 parasite positivity from a minimum sample size of 50 patients provides a more sensitive benchmark in Sub-Saharan Africa compared to the current recommended threshold of 10 % to trigger further investigation of artemisinin susceptibility.

Dal-Re, R. (2016). "The International Committee of Medical Journal Editors trial data sharing requirement and participants' consent." Eur J Clin Invest 46(12): 971-975.
	The International Committee of Medical Journal Editors (ICMJE) has published a draft proposal on de-identified individual clinical trial participant data (IPD) sharing, stating that sharing trial data requires planning to ensure appropriate research ethics committee approval and participants' informed consent. This is why its implementation will be deferred for 1 year after the publication of the final version of the policy. When conducting research with anonymous data, it is not feasible to obtain the informed consent from research participants. De-identified IPD are anonymous to the investigator who is performing the secondary analysis. De-identified IPD meta-analyses have been conducted for decades. Public funders, industry and foundations have recently implemented new IPD sharing procedures; almost all trials used for secondary analyses so far were conducted without participant's consent to de-identified IPD. As stated by the ICMJE, de-identified IPD protects participant's confidentiality. It follows that publishing secondary analyses from completed trials without participant's consent is ethically acceptable. From the ethical perspective, the ICMJE requirement on de-identified IPD sharing should be implemented from the day the policy is published.

Dauzier, E., et al. (2019). "Response to R. Jayaraj." Oral Oncol: 104439.
	
De Carvalho, M. R., et al. (2018). "A Meta-analysis to Compare Four-layer to Short-stretch Compression Bandaging for Venous Leg Ulcer Healing." Ostomy Wound Manage 64(5): 30-37.
	Compression therapy is the standard of care for venous leg ulcers (VLUs), and some evidence suggests 4-layer compression is more effective than short-stretch bandages. A meta-analysis was conducted to compare the effectiveness of these 2 compression bandages for venous ulcer healing. In March 2016, a systematic review of the literature was conducted to identify randomized controlled trials. Databases used included Pubmed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central, the Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature, and the Latin American and Caribbean of Health Sciences Information System. Search terms were varicose ulcer, venous leg ulcer, venous ulceration, leg ulcer, compression bandages, compressive therapy, multilayer system, four-layer system, elastic bandages, short-stretch bandage, short-stretch system, and inelastic bandage. No publication time or language restrictions were imposed, but findings subjected to analysis were limited to results of research that reported healing and healing time using 4-layer and short-stretch compression only. The quality of the studies was assessed using the Jadad scale. Data extracted included study design, country, target population demographics, VLU clinical aspects at baseline, sample size, interventions applied, follow-up period, complete healing, and healing time as outcomes. Relative risk was calculated considering a 95% confidence interval for dichotomous variables (complete healing), and heterogeneity was statistically assessed among the studies using the chi-squared test assuming random effect when I2 >/=50%. The search yielded 557 papers; 21 met the study criteria for full-text analysis, and 7 met the meta-analysis inclusion criteria. The studies included 1437 patients, average age 70 (range 23-97) years with 1446 venous leg ulcers. Most (5) studies were classified as being at low risk of bias. At 12 and 16 weeks, 259 ulcers (51.08%) healed completely in the 4-layer and 234 (46.34%) in the short-stretch bandage groups, respectively (P = .41). At 24 weeks, 268 ulcers (69.07%) in the 4-layer and 257 (62.23%) in the short-stretch bandage groups, respectively, had healed (P = .16). The 2 bandage systems evaluated were similar in achieving complete healing at their respective study endpoints. The average time for healing was 73.6 +/- 14.64 days in the 4-layer and 83.8 +/- 24.89 days in the short-stretch bandage groups; no meta-analysis was done for this outcome due the inability to retrieve all the individual patient data for each study. The choice of compression system remains at the discretion of the clinicians based on evidence of effectiveness, patient tolerability, and preference. Additional randomized controlled trials to compare various wound and patient outcomes between different compression systems are warranted.

de Jong, V. M. T., et al. (2019). "Individual participant data meta-analysis of intervention studies with time-to-event outcomes: A review of the methodology and an applied example." Res Synth Methods.
	Many randomized trials evaluate an intervention effect on time-to-event outcomes. Individual participant data (IPD) from such trials can be obtained and combined in a so-called IPD meta-analysis (IPD-MA), to summarize the overall intervention effect. We performed a narrative literature review to provide an overview of methods for conducting an IPD-MA of randomized intervention studies with a time-to-event outcome. We focused on identifying good methodological practice for modeling frailty of trial participants across trials, modeling heterogeneity of intervention effects, choosing appropriate association measures, dealing with (trial differences in) censoring and follow-up times, and addressing time-varying intervention effects and effect modification (interactions). We discuss how to achieve this using parametric and semi-parametric methods, and describe how to implement these in a one-stage or two-stage IPD-MA framework. We recommend exploring heterogeneity of the effect(s) through interaction and non-linear effects. Random effects should be applied to account for residual heterogeneity of the intervention effect. We provide further recommendations, many of which specific to IPD-MA of time-to-event data from randomized trials examining an intervention effect. We illustrate several key methods in a real IPD-MA, where IPD of 1225 participants from 5 randomized clinical trials were combined to compare the effects of Carbamazepine and Valproate on the incidence of epileptic seizures.

de Vries, E. E., et al. (2019). "A meta-analysis of the effect of stent design on clinical and radiologic outcomes of carotid artery stenting." J Vasc Surg 69(6): 1952-1961.e1951.
	OBJECTIVE: Procedural characteristics, including stent design, may influence the outcome of carotid artery stenting (CAS). A thorough comparison of the effect of stent design on outcome of CAS is thus warranted to allow for optimal evidence-based clinical decision making. This study sought to evaluate the effect of stent design on clinical and radiologic outcomes of CAS. METHODS: A systematic search was conducted in MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane databases in May 2018. Included were articles reporting on the occurrence of clinical short- and intermediate-term major adverse events (MAEs; any stroke or death) or radiologic adverse events (new ischemic lesions on postprocedural magnetic resonance diffusion-weighted imaging [MR-DWI], restenosis, or stent fracture) in different stent designs used to treat carotid artery stenosis. Random effects models were used to calculate combined overall effect sizes. Metaregression was performed to identify the effect of specific stents on MAE rates. RESULTS: From 2654 unique identified articles, two randomized, controlled trials and 66 cohort studies were eligible for analysis (including 46,728 procedures). Short-term clinical MAE rates were similar for patients treated with open cell vs closed cell or hybrid stents. Use of an Acculink stent was associated with a higher risk of short-term MAE compared with a Wallstent (risk ratio [RR], 1.51; P = .03), as was true for use of Precise stent vs Xact stent (RR, 1.55; P < .001). Intermediate-term clinical MAE rates were similar for open vs closed cell stents. Use of open cell stents predisposed to a 25% higher chance (RR, 1.25; P = .03) of developing postprocedural new ischemic lesions on MR-DWI. No differences were observed in the incidence of restenosis, stent fracture, or intraprocedural hemodynamic depression with respect to different stent design. CONCLUSIONS: Stent design is not associated with short- or intermediate-term clinical MAE rates in patients undergoing CAS. Furthermore, the division in open and closed cell stent design might conceal true differences in single stent efficacy. Nevertheless, open cell stenting resulted in a significantly higher number of subclinical postprocedural new ischemic lesions detected on MR-DWI compared with closed cell stenting. An individualized patient data meta-analysis, including future studies with prospective homogenous study design, is required to adequately correct for known risk factors and to provide definite conclusions with respect to carotid stent design for specific subgroups.

de Vries, Y. A., et al. (2019). "Predicting antidepressant response by monitoring early improvement of individual symptoms of depression: individual patient data meta-analysis." Br J Psychiatry 214(1): 4-10.
	BACKGROUND: Improvement in depression within the first 2 weeks of antidepressant treatment predicts good outcomes, but non-improvers can still respond or remit, whereas improvers often do not.AimsWe aimed to investigate whether early improvement of individual depressive symptoms better predicts response or remission. METHOD: We obtained individual patient data of 30 trials comprising 2184 placebo-treated and 6058 antidepressant-treated participants. Primary outcome was week 6 response; secondary outcomes were week 6 remission and week 12 response and remission. We compared models that only included improvement in total score by week 2 (total improvement model) with models that also included improvement in individual symptoms. RESULTS: For week 6 response, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve and negative and positive predictive values of the total improvement model were 0.73, 0.67 and 0.74 compared with 0.77, 0.70 and 0.71 for the item improvement model. Model performance decreased for week 12 outcomes. Of predicted non-responders, 29% actually did respond by week 6 and 43% by week 12, which was decreased from the baseline (overall) probabilities of 51% by week 6 and 69% by week 12. In post hoc analyses with continuous rather than dichotomous early improvement, including individual items did not enhance model performance. CONCLUSIONS: Examining individual symptoms adds little to the predictive ability of early improvement. Additionally, early non-improvement does not rule out response or remission, particularly after 12 rather than 6 weeks. Therefore, our findings suggest that routinely adapting pharmacological treatment because of limited early improvement would often be premature.Declaration of interestNone.

de Waha, S., et al. (2017). "Relationship between microvascular obstruction and adverse events following primary percutaneous coronary intervention for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction: an individual patient data pooled analysis from seven randomized trials." Eur Heart J 38(47): 3502-3510.
	Aims: Microvascular obstruction (MVO) is the underlying cause for the no-reflow phenomenon in ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The association between MVO assessed by cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) and prognosis has not been convincingly demonstrated. We sought to determine the relationship between MVO assessed early after primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in STEMI and all-cause mortality, hospitalization for heart failure (HF), and reinfarction. Methods and results: We performed a pooled analysis using individual patient data from seven randomized primary PCI trials in which MVO was assessed within 7 days after reperfusion by CMR using late gadolinium enhancement imaging (n = 1688). Clinical follow-up was performed for at least 6 months after the index event. Median time to CMR after STEMI was 3 days [interquartile range (IQR) 2-4], and median duration of clinical follow-up was 365 days (IQR 188-374). Microvascular obstruction was present in 960 (56.9%) of patients, and median MVO (percent left ventricular myocardial mass) was 0.47% (IQR 0.00-2.54). A graded response was present between the extent of MVO (per 1.0% absolute increase) and subsequent mortality [Cox adjusted hazard ratio (HR) 1.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.09-1.19, P < 0.0001] and hospitalization for HF (Cox adjusted HR 1.08, 95% CI 1.05-1.12, P < 0.0001). Microvascular obstruction remained significantly associated with all-cause mortality even after further adjustment for infarct size (Cox adjusted HR 1.09, 95% CI 1.01-1.17, P = 0.03). MVO was not significantly related to subsequent reinfarction (P = 0.29). Conclusions: The presence and extent of MVO measured by CMR after primary PCI in STEMI are strongly associated with mortality and hospitalization for HF within 1 year.

Debray, T. P., et al. (2015). "Get real in individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis: a review of the methodology." Res Synth Methods 6(4): 293-309.
	Individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis is an increasingly used approach for synthesizing and investigating treatment effect estimates. Over the past few years, numerous methods for conducting an IPD meta-analysis (IPD-MA) have been proposed, often making different assumptions and modeling choices while addressing a similar research question. We conducted a literature review to provide an overview of methods for performing an IPD-MA using evidence from clinical trials or non-randomized studies when investigating treatment efficacy. With this review, we aim to assist researchers in choosing the appropriate methods and provide recommendations on their implementation when planning and conducting an IPD-MA.

Debray, T. P., et al. (2018). "An overview of methods for network meta-analysis using individual participant data: when do benefits arise?" Stat Methods Med Res 27(5): 1351-1364.
	Network meta-analysis (NMA) is a common approach to summarizing relative treatment effects from randomized trials with different treatment comparisons. Most NMAs are based on published aggregate data (AD) and have limited possibilities for investigating the extent of network consistency and between-study heterogeneity. Given that individual participant data (IPD) are considered the gold standard in evidence synthesis, we explored statistical methods for IPD-NMA and investigated their potential advantages and limitations, compared with AD-NMA. We discuss several one-stage random-effects NMA models that account for within-trial imbalances, treatment effect modifiers, missing response data and longitudinal responses. We illustrate all models in a case study of 18 antidepressant trials with a continuous endpoint (the Hamilton Depression Score). All trials suffered from drop-out; missingness of longitudinal responses ranged from 21 to 41% after 6 weeks follow-up. Our results indicate that NMA based on IPD may lead to increased precision of estimated treatment effects. Furthermore, it can help to improve network consistency and explain between-study heterogeneity by adjusting for participant-level effect modifiers and adopting more advanced models for dealing with missing response data. We conclude that implementation of IPD-NMA should be considered when trials are affected by substantial drop-out rate, and when treatment effects are potentially influenced by participant-level covariates.

Dennis, J. M., et al. (2018). "Sex and BMI Alter the Benefits and Risks of Sulfonylureas and Thiazolidinediones in Type 2 Diabetes: A Framework for Evaluating Stratification Using Routine Clinical and Individual Trial Data." Diabetes Care 41(9): 1844-1853.
	OBJECTIVE: The choice of therapy for type 2 diabetes after metformin is guided by overall estimates of glycemic response and side effects seen in large cohorts. A stratified approach to therapy would aim to improve on this by identifying subgroups of patients whose glycemic response or risk of side effects differs markedly. We assessed whether simple clinical characteristics could identify patients with differing glycemic response and side effects with sulfonylureas and thiazolidinediones. RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We studied 22,379 patients starting sulfonylurea or thiazolidinedione therapy in the U.K. Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) to identify features associated with increased 1-year HbA1c fall with one therapy class and reduced fall with the second. We then assessed whether prespecified patient subgroups defined by the differential clinical factors showed differing 5-year glycemic response and side effects with sulfonylureas and thiazolidinediones using individual randomized trial data from ADOPT (A Diabetes Outcome Progression Trial) (first-line therapy, n = 2,725) and RECORD (Rosiglitazone Evaluated for Cardiovascular Outcomes and Regulation of Glycemia in Diabetes) (second-line therapy, n = 2,222). Further replication was conducted using routine clinical data from GoDARTS (Genetics of Diabetes Audit and Research in Tayside Scotland) (n = 1,977). RESULTS: In CPRD, male sex and lower BMI were associated with greater glycemic response with sulfonylureas and a lesser response with thiazolidinediones (both P < 0.001). In ADOPT and RECORD, nonobese males had a greater overall HbA1c reduction with sulfonylureas than with thiazolidinediones (P < 0.001); in contrast, obese females had a greater HbA1c reduction with thiazolidinediones than with sulfonylureas (P < 0.001). Weight gain and edema risk with thiazolidinediones were greatest in obese females; however, hypoglycemia risk with sulfonylureas was similar across all subgroups. CONCLUSIONS: Patient subgroups defined by sex and BMI have different patterns of benefits and risks on thiazolidinedione and sulfonylurea therapy. Subgroup-specific estimates can inform discussion about the choice of therapy after metformin for an individual patient. Our approach using routine and shared trial data provides a framework for future stratification research in type 2 diabetes.

Deveza, L. A., et al. (2018). "Efficacy of bisphosphonates in specific knee osteoarthritis subpopulations: protocol for an OA Trial Bank systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis." BMJ Open 8(12): e023889.
	INTRODUCTION: Randomised clinical trials to date investigating the efficacy of bisphosphonates in knee osteoarthritis (OA) have found divergent results, with a recent meta-analysis finding no superiority of these drugs over placebo. Whether particular patient subgroups are more likely to benefit from this therapy than others is still unclear. We aim to investigate the effects of bisphosphonates compared with a control group (placebo, no treatment, another active treatment) on clinical and structural outcomes in specific knee OA subpopulations with possible distinct rates of subchondral bone turnover. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Medline, Embase, Scopus, Web of Sciences and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials will be searched from inception to February 2018. Randomised clinical trials will be eligible if they reported at least one potential treatment effect modifier at baseline: gender, menopausal status, age, body mass index, radiographic stage, knee pain severity, presence of bone marrow lesions, levels of biochemical markers of bone turnover (serum and/or urinary) and systemic bone mineral density status. Authors of original trials will be contacted to obtain individual patient data from each study. Risk of bias will be assessed using the Cochrane Collaboration's tool. The primary outcomes will include pain and radiographic joint space width loss. Studies using other MRI-based assessment of disease progression will also be eligible. Outcomes will be grouped into short-term (</=3 months), intermediate-term (>3 months; </=12 months) and long-term (>12 months). Regression models will be used, adding an interaction term for each subgroup of interest to determine possible subgroup effects. There was no source of funding for this study. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Dissemination of our findings is planned to occur through conference presentations, publication in peer-reviewed journals and social media. No formal ethics approval is generally required as no new data collection will be undertaken. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018093327.

Dodd, J. M., et al. (2017). "Prenatal administration of progestogens for preventing spontaneous preterm birth in women with a multiple pregnancy." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 10: Cd012024.
	BACKGROUND: Multiple pregnancy is a strong risk factor for preterm birth, and more than 50% of women with a twin pregnancy will give birth prior to 37 weeks' gestation. Infants born preterm are recognised to be at increased risk of many adverse health outcomes, contributing to more than half of overall perinatal mortality. Progesterone is produced naturally in the body and has a role in maintaining pregnancy, although it is not clear whether administering progestogens to women with multiple pregnancy at high risk of early birth is effective and safe. OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of progesterone administration for the prevention of preterm birth in women with a multiple pregnancy. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (1 November 2016) and reference lists of retrieved studies. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials examining the administration of a progestogen by any route for the prevention of preterm birth in women with multiple pregnancy. We did not include quasi-randomised or cross-over studies. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed reports identified by the search for eligibility, extracted data, assessed risk of bias and graded the quality of the evidence. MAIN RESULTS: We included 17 trials, which all compared either vaginal or intramuscular (IM) progesterone with a placebo or no treatment, and involved a total of 4773 women. The risk of bias for the majority of included studies was low, with the exception of four studies that had inadequate blinding, or significant loss to follow-up or both, or were not reported well enough for us to make a judgement. We graded the evidence low to high quality, with downgrading for statistical heterogeneity, design limitations in some of the studies contributing data, and imprecision of the effect estimate. 1 IM progesterone versus no treatment or placeboMore women delivered at less than 34 weeks' gestation in the IM progesterone group compared with placebo (risk ratio (RR) 1.54, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.06 to 2.26; women = 399; studies = 2; low-quality evidence). Although the incidence of perinatal death in the progesterone group was higher, there was considerable uncertainty around the effect estimate and high heterogeneity between studies (average RR 1.45, 95% CI 0.60 to 3.51; infants = 3089; studies = 6; I(2) = 71%; low-quality evidence). No studies reported maternal mortality or major neurodevelopmental disability at childhood follow-up.There were no clear group differences found in any of the other maternal or infant outcomes (preterm birth less than 37 weeks (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.98 to 1.13; women = 2010; studies = 5; high-quality evidence); preterm birth less than 28 weeks (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.55; women = 1920; studies = 5; moderate-quality evidence); infant birthweight less than 2500 g (RR 0.99, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.08; infants = 4071; studies = 5; I(2) = 76%, moderate-quality evidence)). No childhood outcomes were reported in the trials. 2 Vaginal progesterone versus no treatment or placebo by doseThere were no clear group differences in incidence of preterm birth before 34 weeks (average RR 0.83, 95% CI 0.63 to 1.09; women = 1727; studies = 6; I(2) = 46%; low-quality evidence). Although fewer births before 34 weeks appeared to occur in the progesterone group, the CIs crossed the line of no effect. Incidence of perinatal death was higher in the progesterone group, although there was considerable uncertainty in the effect estimate and the quality of the evidence was low for this outcome (RR 1.23, 95% CI 0.74 to 2.06; infants = 2287; studies = 3; low-quality evidence). No studies reported maternal mortality or major neurodevelopmental disability at childhood follow-up.There were no clear group differences found in any of the other maternal or infant outcomes (preterm birth less than 37 weeks (average RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.89 to 1.06; women = 1597; studies = 6; moderate-quality evidence); preterm birth less than 28 weeks (RR 1.22, 95% CI 0.68 to 2.21; women = 1569; studies = 4; low-quality evidence); infant birthweight less than 2500 g (RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.03; infants = 3079; studies = 4; I(2) = 49%, moderate-quality evidence)). No childhood outcomes were reported in the trials.For secondary outcomes, there were no clear group differences found in any of the other maternal outcomes except for caesarean section, where women who received vaginal progesterone did not have as many caesarean sections as those in the placebo group, although the difference between groups was not large (7%) (RR 0.93, 95% CI 0.88 to 0.98; women = 2143; studies = 6; I(2) = 0%). There were no clear group differences found in any of the infant outcomes except for mechanical ventilation, which was required by fewer infants whose mothers had received the vaginal progesterone (RR 0.61, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.77; infants = 3134; studies = 5). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Overall, for women with a multiple pregnancy, the administration of progesterone (either IM or vaginal) does not appear to be associated with a reduction in risk of preterm birth or improved neonatal outcomes.Future research could focus on a comprehensive individual participant data meta-analysis including all of the available data relating to both IM and vaginal progesterone administration in women with a multiple pregnancy, before considering the need to conduct trials in subgroups of high-risk women (for example, women with a multiple pregnancy and a short cervical length identified on ultrasound).

Dodd, J. M., et al. (2019). "Prenatal administration of progestogens for preventing spontaneous preterm birth in women with a multiple pregnancy." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2019(11).
	BACKGROUND: Multiple pregnancy is a strong risk factor for preterm birth, and more than 50% of women with a twin pregnancy will give birth prior to 37 weeks' gestation. Infants born preterm are recognised to be at increased risk of many adverse health outcomes, contributing to more than half of overall perinatal mortality. Progesterone is produced naturally in the body and has a role in maintaining pregnancy, although it is not clear whether administering progestogens to women with multiple pregnancy at high risk of early birth is effective and safe. Since publication of this new review in Issue 10, 2017, we have now moved one study (El-Refaie 2016) from included to studies awaiting classification, pending clarification about the study data. OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of progesterone administration for the prevention of preterm birth in women with a multiple pregnancy. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (1 November 2016) and reference lists of retrieved studies. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials examining the administration of a progestogen by any route for the prevention of preterm birth in women with multiple pregnancy. We did not include quasi-randomised or cross-over studies. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed reports identified by the search for eligibility, extracted data, assessed risk of bias and graded the quality of the evidence. MAIN RESULTS: We included 16 trials, which all compared either vaginal or intramuscular (IM) progesterone with a placebo or no treatment, and involved a total of 4548 women. The risk of bias for the majority of included studies was low, with the exception of three studies that had inadequate blinding, or significant loss to follow-up or both, or were not reported well enough for us to make a judgement. We graded the evidence low to high quality, with downgrading for statistical heterogeneity, design limitations in some of the studies contributing data, and imprecision of the effect estimate. 1 IM progesterone versus no treatment or placebo More women delivered at less than 34 weeks' gestation in the IM progesterone group compared with placebo (risk ratio (RR) 1.54, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.06 to 2.26; women = 399; studies = 2; low-quality evidence). Although the incidence of perinatal death in the progesterone group was higher, there was considerable uncertainty around the effect estimate and high heterogeneity between studies (average RR 1.45, 95% CI 0.60 to 3.51; infants = 3089; studies = 6; I(2) = 71%; low-quality evidence). No studies reported maternal mortality or major neurodevelopmental disability at childhood follow-up. There were no clear group differences found in any of the other maternal or infant outcomes (preterm birth less than 37 weeks (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.98 to 1.13; women = 2010; studies = 5; high-quality evidence); preterm birth less than 28 weeks (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.55; women = 1920; studies = 5; moderate-quality evidence); infant birthweight less than 2500 g (RR 0.99, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.08; infants = 4071; studies = 5; I(2) = 76%, moderate-quality evidence)). No childhood outcomes were reported in the trials. 2 Vaginal progesterone versus no treatment or placebo by dose There were no clear group differences in incidence of preterm birth before 34 weeks (average RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.23; women = 1503; studies = 5; I(2) = 36%; low-quality evidence). Although fewer births before 34 weeks appeared to occur in the progesterone group, the CIs crossed the line of no effect. Incidence of perinatal death was higher in the progesterone group, although there was considerable uncertainty in the effect estimate and the quality of the evidence was low for this outcome (RR 1.23, 95% CI 0.74 to 2.06; infants = 2287; studies = 3; low-quality evidence). No studies reported maternal mortality or major neurodevelopmental disability at childhood follow-up. There were no clear group differences found in any of the other maternal or infant outcomes (preterm birth less than 37 weeks (average RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.89 to 1.06; women = 1597; studies = 6; moderate-quality evidence); preterm birth less than 28 weeks (RR 1.53, 95% CI 0.79 to 2.97; women = 1345; studies = 3; low-quality evidence); infant birthweight less than 2500 g (average RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.84 to 1.07; infants = 2640; studies = 3; I(2) = 66%, moderate-quality evidence)). No childhood outcomes were reported in the trials. For secondary outcomes, there were no clear group differences found in any of the other maternal outcomes except for caesarean section, where women who received vaginal progesterone did not have as many caesarean sections as those in the placebo group, although the difference between groups was not large (8%) (RR 0.92, 95% CI 0.86 to 0.98; women = 1919; studies = 5; I(2) = 0%). There were no clear group differences found in any of the infant outcomes except for mechanical ventilation, which was required by fewer infants whose mothers had received the vaginal progesterone (RR 0.70, 95% CI 0.52 to 0.94; infants = 2695; studies = 4). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Overall, for women with a multiple pregnancy, the administration of progesterone (either IM or vaginal) does not appear to be associated with a reduction in risk of preterm birth or improved neonatal outcomes. Future research could focus on a comprehensive individual participant data meta-analysis including all of the available data relating to both IM and vaginal progesterone administration in women with a multiple pregnancy, before considering the need to conduct trials in subgroups of high-risk women (for example, women with a multiple pregnancy and a short cervical length identified on ultrasound).

Dorsey-Trevino, E. G., et al. (2018). "Systematic review and meta-analysis of the effect of SGLT-2 inhibitors on microvascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes: a review protocol." BMJ Open 8(6): e020692.
	INTRODUCTION: Sodium glucose cotransporter 2 (SGLT-2) inhibitors are a relatively new drug-class of glucose-lowering medications. Several trials and systematic reviews have demonstrated their beneficial effect on some macrovascular outcomes. Their effect on microvascular outcomes has been reported as positive in several trials, however, their effect remains uncertain. Therefore, we report the protocol of a systematic review and meta-analysis aimed at determining the effect of SGLT-2 inhibitors regarding patient-important and surrogate microvascular outcomes in patients with type 2 diabetes. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: A comprehensive search will be conducted to find eligible articles from each database's earliest inception to November 2017. These databases will include Ovid, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Web of Science, and Scopus. We will search for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compare any of the SGLT-2 inhibitors with any other active treatment or placebo assessing microvascular outcomes in either their primary or secondary outcomes. Reviewers working independently and in duplicate will review all abstracts, and full-text manuscripts for eligibility, and will systematically extract the data and will assess the risk of bias in the included studies. Random-effects models will also be used. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The results of the systematic review will be disseminated via publication in a peer-reviewed journal regardless of outcome and will be presented at relevant conferences. The data we will use do not include individual patient data, so ethical approval is not required PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42017076460.

Dowling, C., et al. (2019). "Transcatheter aortic valve replacement versus surgery for symptomatic severe aortic stenosis: A reconstructed individual patient data meta-analysis." Catheter Cardiovasc Interv.
	OBJECTIVES: We wished to undertake a reconstructed individual patient data meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials comparing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) and surgery for patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis. BACKGROUND: TAVR and surgery are both well-established methods for treating patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis who are at low, intermediate, and high risk for surgery. METHODS: Data were identified by searches of Medline, Embase, CENTRAL and ClinicalTrials.gov for all randomized clinical trials, which compared TAVR and surgery that had published at least 1 year of follow-up. Individual patient data were reconstructed from Kaplan-Meier curves. RESULTS: A total of 7,770 patients from seven randomized clinical trials were included in this meta-analysis. At 1 year, TAVR was associated with a lower risk of death from any cause (hazard ratio [HR], 0.85, 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.73-0.98; p = .03), disabling stroke (HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.54-0.93; p = .01) and the composite end point of death or disabling stroke (HR, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.67-0.92; p = .002). Significant interactions were found for access suitability, with TAVR associated with a lower risk of these end points in patients suitable for transfemoral access. TAVR was associated with a lower risk of periprocedural events, whereas the risk of late events was similar between TAVR and surgery. CONCLUSIONS: At 1 year, TAVR was associated with a lower risk of death, disabling stroke and the composite end point, when compared with surgery. These associations were strongest within the subgroup of patients in whom transfemoral access was feasible.

Drucker, A., et al. (2017). AHRQ Comparative Effectiveness Reviews. Treatments for Basal Cell and Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the Skin. Rockville (MD), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US).
	INTRODUCTION: Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) are among the most common malignancies in the United States. There are many potential management strategies for BCCs and SCCs, and the choice of management strategy for an individual patient is not straightforward. We aimed to comprehensively collect information on the comparative effectiveness and safety of each currently used therapeutic strategy for both BCC and SCC. DATA SOURCES: We conducted literature searches in MEDLINE((R)), the Cochrane Central Trials Registry and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, and Embase((R)) up to March 2017. We also perused the reference lists of published relevant clinical practice guidelines and systematic reviews. We recorded information on recurrence, histologic clearance, clinical clearance, patient- or observer-rated cosmetic outcomes, adverse effects, quality of life, costs and resources, mental health, patient satisfaction, and mortality. We estimated intervention effects (differences in outcomes between treatments) and the mean frequency of the outcome with each treatment using network meta-analyses. RESULTS: We identified 58 randomized controlled trials and 51 nonrandomized comparative studies comparing 21 interventions in 9 categories. Nearly all reported results for recurrence or cure rate outcomes and adverse events, and many reported results for cosmetic outcomes. Few studies reported results using validated instruments for quality of life, mental health, or patient satisfaction with treatment. Data were sparse, especially for analyses at the individual-intervention level. For BCCs, surgical interventions and radiation were associated with lower recurrence rates than interventions that destroy lesions with heat or cold and photodynamic therapy (PDT), and may have lower recurrence rates than curettage. Recurrence rates did not differ significantly between imiquimod and excision. The data were not sufficient to draw conclusions about the comparison of curettage with interventions that destroy lesions with heat or cold, or PDT versus other intervention categories. For SCC in situ, interventions that destroy the lesions with heat or cold and PDT were associated with lower recurrence rates than 5-fluorouracil. Data on the relative effect of thermal interventions versus PDT were not precise enough to draw conclusions. CONCLUSIONS: Based on sparse evidence, surgical and radiation treatments have lower recurrence rates than other modalities for the treatment of low-risk BCC, and PDT appears to have superior cosmetic outcomes. Large gaps remain in the literature regarding the comparison of individual interventions and SCC in situ, with very little or no information on immunocompromised patients, patients with limited life expectancy, and patients with specific lesion categories, including high-risk BCCs and invasive SCCs. MAY 2019 UPDATE: an addendum is located at the end of the main report, before the appendixes.

Duan-Porter, W., et al. (2015). VA Evidence-based Synthesis Program Reports. Mapping the Evidence: Sex Effects in High-Impact Conditions for Women Veterans - Depression, Diabetes, and Chronic Pain. Washington (DC), Department of Veterans Affairs (US).
	BACKGROUND: Women are entering the military at unprecedented rates and comprise a rapidly increasing segment of Veterans Health Administration (VHA) enrollees. In response, the VHA Women's Health Service requested an evidence map to (1) identify effective interventions in women, (2) better understand sex differences in intervention effects for high-impact medical conditions, and (3) identify gaps in evidence about the efficacy of interventions in women. METHODS: We used a stakeholder-driven approach to identify high-priority conditions and interventions. From an initial list of 36 conditions, we used a forced-rank methodology to identify 3 conditions for evaluation: depressive disorders, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and chronic pain conditions (chronic low back pain [CLBP], chronic knee osteoarthritis [OA], and fibromyalgia [FM]). We evaluated treatments in broad categories, including medications, behavioral interventions, supervised exercise, and quality improvement interventions, along with certain condition-specific interventions. For each condition, we searched MEDLINE and the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) to identify relevant systematic reviews published from January 1, 2009, through October 31, 2014. Data abstracted from eligible systematic reviews included study design, outcomes, the number and design of primary studies, proportion of men and women in included studies, and whether sex effects were part of study aims, analysis plan, or results. For studies containing sex-specific results, we also abstracted the method used for evaluating sex effects (eg, meta-regression) and the outcomes that differed due to sex effects. When information on sex effects was absent from eligible reviews, we selected high-priority interventions for further evaluation. For these interventions, we examined the largest recent systematic review to identify primary randomized controlled trials (RCTs) as candidates for review. We examined RCTs that randomized at least 75 patients per treatment arm to determine whether they reported sex effects. We chose this sample size criterion in order to limit evaluation to RCTs that had the potential for adequate statistical power to detect interaction effects (intervention * sex). RESULTS: A combined search of PubMed and CDSR yielded 2531 unique citations, of which 582 full-text articles were retrieved; 313 systematic reviews were eligible, and 268 were fully abstracted. Of these, 86 addressed interventions for depression, 114 addressed interventions for diabetes, and 68 addressed interventions for 3 types of chronic pain: CLBP (n=26), FM (n=34), and knee OA (n=8). Most reviews limited eligibility to RCTs, and the number of primary studies included in the systematic reviews ranged from 0 to 347. Only half (48%) of the reviews summarized the gender distribution of the populations of the included studies, but when summarized, women were well represented. Sex effects were reported in only 30 of the 313 (10%) eligible reviews: 14 (16%) for depressive disorders, 13 (8%) for diabetes, and 3 (4%) for chronic pain. Individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis-the analysis method best suited to evaluating sex effects-was rarely used (n=16 of 268 abstracted reviews, 6%). Overall, we found only a minority of RCTs had sample sizes large enough to examine moderator effects, and only 14% of these (9 of 66) examined interactions between sex and the main comparison, intervention type versus control group. When sex effects analyses were identified, most commonly no effect was found. Those with evidence of a sex effect often showed greater benefit in women (Table), but differential effects were typically small. There were important gaps in evidence on sex effects for multiple interventions in all conditions examined, either because no reviews evaluating sex effects were identified or because no IPD meta-analyses were identified. CONCLUSIONS: There is a large body of evidence for many of the examined interventions, particularly medications, psychotherapy, and exercise. However, systematic reviews and primary RCTs examined sex effects infrequently. When examined, sex effects generally favored greater benefits in women, but the differential effects were small and the analysis approaches were often suboptimal. All RCTs and systematic reviews should report the proportion of men and women enrolled, and sex effects should be examined in adequately powered RCTs or IPD meta-analyses.

Duan-Porter, W., et al. (2016). "Reporting of Sex Effects by Systematic Reviews on Interventions for Depression, Diabetes, and Chronic Pain." Ann Intern Med 165(3): 184-193.
	Systematic reviews (SRs) have the potential to contribute uniquely to the evaluation of sex and gender differences (termed "sex effects"). This article describes the reporting of sex effects by SRs on interventions for depression, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and chronic pain conditions (chronic low back pain, knee osteoarthritis, and fibromyalgia). It includes SRs published since 1 October 2009 that evaluate medications, behavioral interventions, exercise, quality improvement, and some condition-specific treatments. The reporting of sex effects by primary randomized, controlled trials is also examined. Of 313 eligible SRs (86 for depression, 159 for type 2 diabetes mellitus, and 68 for chronic pain), few (n = 29) reported sex effects. Most SRs reporting sex effects used metaregression, whereas 9 SRs used subgroup analysis or individual-patient data meta-analysis. The proportion of SRs reporting the sex distribution of primary studies varied from a low of 31% (n = 8) for low back pain to a high of 68% (n = 23) for fibromyalgia. Primary randomized, controlled trials also infrequently reported sex effects, and most lacked an adequate sample size to examine them. Therefore, all SRs should report the proportion of women enrolled in primary studies and evaluate sex effects using appropriate methods whenever power is adequate.

Duley, L., et al. (2019). "Antiplatelet agents for preventing pre-eclampsia and its complications." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2019(10).
	BACKGROUND: Pre-eclampsia is associated with deficient intravascular production of prostacyclin, a vasodilator, and excessive production of thromboxane, a vasoconstrictor and stimulant of platelet aggregation. These observations led to the hypotheses that antiplatelet agents, low-dose aspirin in particular, might prevent or delay development of pre-eclampsia. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of antiplatelet agents, such as aspirin and dipyridamole, when given to women at risk of developing pre-eclampsia. SEARCH METHODS: For this update, we searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (30 March 2018), and reference lists of retrieved studies. We updated the search in September 2019 and added the results to the awaiting classification section of the review. SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised trials comparing antiplatelet agents with either placebo or no antiplatelet agent were included. Studies only published in abstract format were eligible for inclusion if sufficient information was available. We would have included cluster-randomised trials in the analyses along with individually-randomised trials, if any had been identified in our search strategy. Quasi-random studies were excluded. Participants were pregnant women at risk of developing pre-eclampsia. Interventions were administration of an antiplatelet agent (such as low-dose aspirin or dipyridamole), comparisons were either placebo or no antiplatelet. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors assessed trials for inclusion and extracted data independently. For binary outcomes, we calculated risk ratio (RR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI), on an intention-to-treat basis. For this update we incorporated individual participant data (IPD) from trials with this available, alongside aggregate data (AD) from trials where it was not, in order to enable reliable subgroup analyses and inclusion of two key new outcomes. We assessed risk of bias for included studies and created a 'Summary of findings' table using GRADE. MAIN RESULTS: Seventy-seven trials (40,249 women, and their babies) were included, although three trials (relating to 233 women) did not contribute data to the meta-analysis. Nine of the trials contributing data were large (> 1000 women recruited), accounting for 80% of women recruited. Although the trials took place in a wide range of countries, all of the nine large trials involved only women in high-income and/or upper middle-income countries. IPD were available for 36 trials (34,514 women), including all but one of the large trials. Low-dose aspirin alone was the intervention in all the large trials, and most trials overall. Dose in the large trials was 50 mg (1 trial, 1106 women), 60 mg (5 trials, 22,322 women), 75mg (1 trial, 3697 women) 100 mg (1 trial, 3294 women) and 150 mg (1 trial, 1776 women). Most studies were either low risk of bias or unclear risk of bias; and the large trials were all low risk of bas. Antiplatelet agents versus placebo/no treatment The use of antiplatelet agents reduced the risk of proteinuric pre-eclampsia by 18% (36,716 women, 60 trials, RR 0.82, 95% CI 0.77 to 0.88; high-quality evidence), number needed to treat for one women to benefit (NNTB) 61 (95% CI 45 to 92). There was a small (9%) reduction in the RR for preterm birth <37 weeks (35,212 women, 47 trials; RR 0.91, 95% CI 0.87 to 0.95, high-quality evidence), NNTB 61 (95% CI 42 to 114), and a 14% reduction infetal deaths, neonatal deaths or death before hospital discharge (35,391 babies, 52 trials; RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.95; high-quality evidence), NNTB 197 (95% CI 115 to 681). Antiplatelet agents slightly reduced the risk of small-for-gestational age babies (35,761 babies, 50 trials; RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.92; high-quality evidence), NNTB 146 (95% CI 90 to 386), and pregnancies with serious adverse outcome (a composite outcome including maternal death, baby death, pre-eclampsia, small-for-gestational age, and preterm birth) (RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.85 to 0.96; 17,382 women; 13 trials, high-quality evidence), NNTB 54 (95% CI 34 to 132). Antiplatelet agents probably slightly increase postpartum haemorrhage > 500 mL (23,769 women, 19 trials; RR 1.06, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.12; moderate-quality evidence due to clinical heterogeneity), and they probably marginally increase the risk of placental abruption, although for this outcome the evidence was downgraded due to a wide confidence interval including the possibility of no effect (30,775 women; 29 trials; RR 1.21, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.54; moderate-quality evidence). Data from two large trials which assessed children at aged 18 months (including results from over 5000 children), did not identify clear differences in development between the two groups. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Administering low-dose aspirin to pregnant women led to small-to-moderate benefits, including reductions in pre-eclampsia (16 fewer per 1000 women treated), preterm birth (16 fewer per 1000 treated), the baby being born small-for-gestational age (seven fewer per 1000 treated) and fetal or neonatal death (five fewer per 1000 treated). Overall, administering antiplatelet agents to 1000 women led to 20 fewer pregnancies with serious adverse outcomes. The quality of evidence for all these outcomes was high. Aspirin probably slightly increased the risk of postpartum haemorrhage of more than 500 mL, however, the quality of evidence for this outcome was downgraded to moderate, due to concerns of clinical heterogeneity in measurements of blood loss. Antiplatelet agents probably marginally increase placental abruption, but the quality of the evidence was downgraded to moderate due to low event numbers and thus wide 95% CI. Overall, antiplatelet agents improved outcomes, and at these doses appear to be safe. Identifying women who are most likely to respond to low-dose aspirin would improve targeting of treatment. As almost all the women in this review were recruited to the trials after 12 weeks' gestation, it is unclear whether starting treatment before 12 weeks' would have additional benefits without any increase in adverse effects. While there was some indication that higher doses of aspirin would be more effective, further studies would be warranted to examine this.

Ebert, D. D., et al. (2015). "Internet and computer-based cognitive behavioral therapy for anxiety and depression in youth: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled outcome trials." PLoS One 10(3): e0119895.
	BACKGROUND: Anxiety and depression in children and adolescents are undertreated. Computer- and Internet-based cognitive behavioral treatments (cCBT) may be an attractive treatment alternative to regular face-to-face treatment.This meta-analysis aims to evaluate whether cCBT is effective for treating symptoms of anxiety and depression in youth. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We conducted systematic searches in bibliographical databases (Pubmed, Cochrane controlled trial register, PsychInfo) up to December 4, 2013. Only randomized controlled trials in which a computer-, Internet- or mobile-based cognitive behavioral intervention targeting either depression, anxiety or both in children or adolescents up to the age of 25 were compared to a control condition were selected. We employed a random-effects pooling model in overall effect analyses and a mixed effect model for sub-group analyses. Searches resulted in identifying 13 randomized trials, including 796 children and adolescents that met inclusion criteria. Seven studies were directed at treating anxiety, four studies at depression, and two were of a transdiagnostic nature, targeting both anxiety and depression. The overall mean effect size (Hedges' g) of cCBT on symptoms of anxiety or depression at post-test was g=0.72 (95% CI:0.55-0.90, numbers needed to be treated (NNT)=2.56). Heterogeneity was low (I(2)=20.14%, 95% CI: 0-58%). The superiority of cCBT over controls was evident for interventions targeting anxiety (g=0.68; 95% CI: 0.45-0.92; p < .001; NNT=2.70) and for interventions targeting depression (g=0.76; 95% CI: 0.41-0.12; p < .001; NNT=2.44) as well as for transdiagnostic interventions (g=0.94; 95% CI: 0.23-2.66; p < .001; NNT=2.60). CONCLUSIONS: Results provide evidence for the efficacy of cCBT in the treatment of anxiety and depressive symptoms in youth. Hence, such interventions may be a promising treatment alternative when evidence based face-to-face treatment is not feasible. Future studies should examine long-term effects of treatments and should focus on obtaining patient-level data from existing studies, to perform an individual patient data meta-analysis.

Ediebah, D. E., et al. (2018). "Quality of life as a prognostic indicator of survival: A pooled analysis of individual patient data from canadian cancer trials group clinical trials." Cancer 124(16): 3409-3416.
	BACKGROUND: The aims of this study were to externally validate an established association between baseline health-related quality of life (HRQOL) scores and survival and to assess the added prognostic value of HRQOL with respect to demographic and clinical indicators. METHODS: Pooled data were analyzed from 17 randomized controlled trials opened by the Canadian Cancer Trials Group between 1991 and 2004; they included survival and baseline HRQOL data from 3606 patients with 8 different cancer sites. The models included sex, age (</=60 vs >60 years), World Health Organization performance status (0 or 1 vs 2-4), distant metastases (no vs yes), and 15 European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) Core Quality-of-Life Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) scales. Analyses were conducted with multivariate Cox proportional hazards models and were stratified by cancer site. Harrell's discrimination C-index was used to calculate the predictive accuracy of the model when HRQOL parameters were added to clinical and demographic variables. The added value of adding HRQOL scales to clinical and demographic variables was illustrated with Kaplan-Meier curves. RESULTS: In the stratified, multivariate model, HRQOL parameters-global health status (hazard ratio [HR], 0.97; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.95-1.00; P < . 0001), dyspnea (HR, 1.04; 95% CI, 1.02-1.06; P < . 0002), and appetite loss (HR, 1.06; 95% CI, 1.04-1.08; P < . 0001)-were independent prognostic factors in addition to the demographic and clinical variables (all P values < .05). Adding these HRQOL variables to the clinical variables resulted in an added relative prognostic value for survival of 5%. CONCLUSIONS: These results confirm previous findings showing that baseline HRQOL scores on the EORTC QLQ-C30 provide prognostic information in addition to information from clinical measures. However, the impact of specific domains may differ across studies. Cancer 2018. (c) 2018 American Cancer Society.

Egger, M., et al. (2016). "GetReal: from efficacy in clinical trials to relative effectiveness in the real world." Res Synth Methods 7(3): 278-281.
	The GetReal consortium ("incorporating real-life data into drug development") addresses the efficacy-effectiveness gap that opens between the data from well-controlled randomized trials in selected patient groups submitted to regulators and the real-world evidence on effectiveness and safety of drugs required by decision makers. Workpackage 4 of GetReal develops evidence synthesis and modelling approaches to generate the real-world evidence. In this commentary, we discuss how questions change when moving from the well-controlled randomized trial setting to real-life medical practice, the evidence required to answer these questions, the populations to which estimates will be applicable to and the methods and data sources used to produce these estimates. We then introduce the methodological reviews written by GetReal authors and published in Research Synthesis Methods on network meta-analysis, individual patient data meta-analysis and mathematical modelling to predict drug effectiveness. The critical reviews of key methods are a good starting point for the ambitious programme of work GetReal has embarked on. The different strands of work under way in GetReal have great potential to contribute to making clinical trials research as relevant as it can be to patients, caregivers and policy makers. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

Eggermont, A. M. M. and R. Dummer (2017). "The 2017 complete overhaul of adjuvant therapies for high-risk melanoma and its consequences for staging and management of melanoma patients." Eur J Cancer 86: 101-105.
	The spectacular outcomes of the phase III trials regarding nivolumab versus ipilimumab in fully resected stage IIIB/C-IV and of the combination of dabrafenib (D) plus trametinib (T) in BRAF-mutant stage III patients demonstrate that effective treatments in advanced melanoma are also highly effective in the adjuvant setting. In 2016, an overall survival benefit with adjuvant high-dose ipilimumab was demonstrated, and the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer trial 1325 comparing pembrolizumab versus placebo will complete the picture in the early 2018. Toxicity profiles are in line with the experience in advanced melanoma, i.e. favourable for the anti-PD1 agents and for D + T and problematic for ipilimumab. The 2017 outcomes are practice changing and put an end to the use of interferon (IFN) and ipilimumab. In countries with only access to IFN, its use can be restricted to patients with ulcerated melanoma, based on the individual patient data meta-analysis recently published. Because of the results of the Melanoma Sentinel Lymph node Trial-2 (MSLT-2) trial, completion lymph node dissection (CLND) will decrease sharply, leading to a lack of optimal prognostic information. Prognosis in sentinel node-positive stage IIIA/B patients is extremely heterogeneous with 5-year survival rates varying from 90% to 40% and depends mostly on the number of positive nodes identified by CLND. This information is crucial for clinical decision-making. How to guarantee optimal staging information needs to be discussed urgently. Further improvements of adjuvant therapies will have to address all these questions as well as the exploration of neoadjuvant use of active drugs and combination approaches. Important paradigm shifts in the management of high-risk melanoma patients are upon us.

Ensing, H. T., et al. (2015). "Identifying the Optimal Role for Pharmacists in Care Transitions: A Systematic Review." J Manag Care Spec Pharm 21(8): 614-636.
	BACKGROUND: A transition from one health care setting to another increases the risk of medication errors. Several strategies have been applied to improve care transitions and reduce adverse clinical outcomes. Pharmacist intervention during and after hospitalization has been frequently studied and show a variable effect on these outcomes. OBJECTIVE: To identify the components of pharmacist intervention that improve clinical outcomes during care transitions. METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and Web of Science databases were searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that studied pharmacist intervention with regard to hospitalization. Two reviewers independently screened all references published from inception to November 2014, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. RESULTS: A total of 30 studies met the inclusion criteria. A model was created to categorize and cluster components of pharmacist intervention. The average number of components deployed, stages of hospitalization covered, and intervention targets were equally distributed between effective and ineffective studies. A best evidence synthesis of 15 studies revealed strong evidence for a clinical medication review in multifaceted programs (5 effective vs. 0 ineffective studies). Conflicting evidence was found for an isolated postdischarge intervention, admission medication reconciliation, combining postdischarge interventions with in-hospital interventions, and covering of multiple stages. Closely collaborating with other health care providers enhanced the effectiveness. CONCLUSIONS: Although there is a need for well-designed and well-reported RCTs, the study heterogeneity enabled a best evidence synthesis to elucidate effective components of pharmacist intervention. In isolated postdischarge intervention programs, evidence tends towards collaborating with nurses and tailoring to individual patient needs. In multifaceted intervention programs, performing medication reconciliation alone is insufficient in reducing postdischarge clinical outcomes and should be combined with active patient counseling and a clinical medication review. Furthermore, close collaboration between pharmacists and physicians is beneficial. Finally, it is important to secure continuity of care by integrating pharmacists in these multifaceted programs across health care settings. Ultimately, pharmacists need to know patient clinical background and previous hospital experience.

Esterhuizen, T. M. and L. Thabane (2016). "Con: Meta-analysis: some key limitations and potential solutions." Nephrol Dial Transplant 31(6): 882-885.
	Meta-analysis, a statistical combination of results of several trials to produce a summary effect, has been subject to criticism in the past, mainly for the reasons of poor quality of included studies, heterogeneity between studies meta-analyzed and failing to address publication bias. These limitations can cause the results to be misleading, which is important if policy and practice decisions are based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses. We elaborate on these limitations and illustrate them with examples from the nephrology literature. Finally, we present some potential solutions, notably, education in meta-analysis for evidence producers and consumers as well as the use of individual patient data for meta-analyses.

Eudy-Byrne, R. J., et al. (2017). "A model of fracture risk used to examine the link between bone mineral density and the impact of different therapeutic mechanisms on fracture outcomes in patients with osteoporosis." J Pharmacokinet Pharmacodyn 44(6): 599-609.
	A hazard model of fracture was developed using individual patient data (IPD) from the NHANES (2005-2008) database and summary-level data from an aggregate dataset (AD). The AD was built by performing a comprehensive and systematic literature search of clinical studies published from 1995 to 2015, recording fracture rate and bone mineral density (BMD) for both treatment and placebo arms. The search resulted in a metadata set comprised of 21 studies investigating the effects of various bisphosphonates, teriparatide, denosumab, and raloxifene in 65,254 patients over a cumulative 56.75 years of study. The IPD was used to augment an AD in a model-based meta-analysis (MBMA) hierarchical modeling approach. The resulting model predicts the probability of fracture events in patients with osteoporosis. The object of model building using this approach was to promote understanding of the impact of therapeutic drug effects on the probability of fracture together with, or independent of their effects on BMD. Candidate models were evaluated by deviance information criteria and posterior predictive check. The model with covariates for lumbar spine BMD with interaction with a drug effect on BMD, and patient body mass index, years post-menopause, fracture measure method (clinical or radiological) and an additional drug effect outperformed those models without interaction and without additional drug effects. The model quantitatively supports the widely held notion that changes in bone microarchitecture, which cannot be measured by areal BMD elicited by therapy contribute in a significant way to a reduction in fracture. Furthermore, this model can be used to simulate fracture risk in a clinical cohort similar to those contained in the MBMA.

Fayard, F., et al. (2018). "Impact of missing individual patient data on 18 meta-analyses of randomised trials in oncology: Gustave Roussy experience." BMJ Open 8(8): e020499.
	OBJECTIVE: To compare the characteristics, quality and treatment effects of randomised clinical trials (RCTs) by individual patient data (IPD) availability, in trials eligible for 18 IPD meta-analyses (MA). DESIGN: Trial characteristics, risk of bias (RoB) and hazard ratio (HR) for overall survival were extracted from IPD-MA publications and/or RCTs publications. Data for the RoB assessment were extracted for a subset of 73 RCTs. Two investigators blinded to whether IPD was available or not evaluated the RoB for these trials. Treatment effects were compared using ratios of global HRs (RHRs) of IPD-unavailable trials and IPD-available trials. RHR were pooled using a fixed-effect model. DATA SOURCES: We examined the IPD availability for each trial eligible for each IPD-MA; when the IPD was not available for a trial, we used information from published sources. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR SELECTING STUDIES: We selected all published IPD-MAs conducted at Gustave Roussy and the RCTs eligible for each. RESULTS: 349 RCTs (73 018 patients) from 18 MAs were eligible: 60 RCTs (5890 patients) had unavailable IPD and 289 RCTs (67 128 patients) had available IPD. The main reason for IPD unavailability was data loss by investigators. IPD-unavailable trials were smaller (p<0.001), more often monocentric (p<0.001) and non-international (p=0.0004) than IPD-available trials. Geographical areas differed (p=0.054) between IPD-unavailable IPD-available trials. RoB was higher in IPD-unavailable RCTs for random sequence generation (p=0.007) and allocation concealment (p=0.006). The HR and 95% confidence interval (CI) for overall survival were extractable from publications in 23/60 IPD-unavailable trials included in 10 different MAs. Treatment effects were significantly greater for IPD-unavailable trials compared with IPD-available trials (RHR=0.86 (95% CI 0.75 to 0.98)). CONCLUSIONS: IPD-unavailable RCTs were significantly different from IPD-available RCTs in terms of trial characteristics and were at greater RoB. IPD-unavailable RCTs had a significantly greater treatment effect.

Fazel, M. T., et al. (2017). "Impact of Diabetes Care by Pharmacists as Part of Health Care Team in Ambulatory Settings: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis." Ann Pharmacother 51(10): 890-907.
	OBJECTIVE: To conduct a comprehensive systematic review and meta-analyses examining the impact of pharmacist interventions as part of health care teams on diabetes therapeutic outcomes in ambulatory care settings. DATA SOURCES: PubMed/MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Library, International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, Web of Science, Scopus, WHO's Global Health Library, ClinicalTrials.gov , and Google Scholar were searched (1995 to February 2017). Search terms included pharmacist, team, and diabetes. STUDY SELECTION: Full-text articles published in English with comparative designs, including randomized controlled trials, nonrandomized controlled trials, and pretest-posttest studies evaluating hemoglobin A1C (A1C), were assessed. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Two reviewers independently screened for study inclusion and extracted data. Quality of the studies was assessed using tools developed based on the framework of the Cochrane Collaboration's recommendations. DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 1908 studies were identified from the literature and reference searches; 42 studies were included in the systematic review (n = 10 860) and 35 in the meta-analyses (n = 7417). Mean age ranged from 42 to 73 years, and 8% to 100% were male. The overall standardized mean difference (SMD) for A1C for pharmacist care versus comparison was 0.57 ( P < 0.01), a moderate effect representing a mean difference of 1.1% (95% CI = 0.88-1.27). The effects for systolic blood pressure and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol were between small and moderate (SMD = 0.31 and 0.32; P < 0.01). The heterogeneity was high for all outcomes (>83%), indicating functional differences among the studies. No publication bias was detected. CONCLUSION: Pharmacists' interventions as part of the patient's health care team improved diabetes therapeutic outcomes, substantiating the important role of pharmacists in team-based diabetes management.

Fernandez-Pello, S., et al. (2017). "A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Comparing the Effectiveness and Adverse Effects of Different Systemic Treatments for Non-clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma." Eur Urol 71(3): 426-436.
	CONTEXT: While vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy and mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition are effective strategies in treating clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), the most effective therapeutic approach for patients with non-clear cell RCC (non-ccRCC) is unknown. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review relevant literature comparing the oncological outcomes and adverse events of different systemic therapies for patients with metastatic non-ccRCC. EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Relevant databases including MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Library were searched up to March 24, 2016. Only comparative studies were included. Risk of bias and confounding assessments were performed. A meta-analysis was planned for and only performed if methodologically appropriate; otherwise, a narrative synthesis was undertaken. EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: The literature search identified 812 potential titles and abstracts. Five randomized controlled trials, recruiting a total of 365 patients, were included. Three studies compared sunitinib against everolimus, one of which reported the results for non-ccRCC as a subgroup rather than as an entire randomized cohort. Individually, the studies showed a trend towards favoring sunitinib in terms of overall survival and progression-free survival (PFS; Everolimus versus Sunitinib in Patients with Metastatic Non-clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma hazard ratio [HR]: 1.41, 80% confidence interval [CI] 1.03-1.92 and 1.41, 95% CI: 0.88-2.27, Evaluation in Metastatic Non-clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma HR: 1.16, 95% CI: 0.67-2.01, Efficacy and Safety Comparison of RAD001 Versus Sunitinib in the First-line and Second-line Treatment of Patients with Metastatic Renal Cell Carcinoma HR: 1.5, 95% CI: 0.9-2.8), but this trend did not reach statistical significance in any study. Meta-analysis was performed on two studies which solely recruited patients with non-ccRCC reporting on PFS, the results of which were inconclusive (HR: 1.30, 95% CI: 0.91-1.86). Sunitinib was associated with more Grade 3-4 adverse events than everolimus, although this was not statistically significant. CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review and meta-analysis represent a robust summary of the evidence base for systemic treatment of metastatic non-ccRCC. The results show a trend towards favoring vascular endothelial growth factor-targeted therapy for PFS and overall survival compared with mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors, although statistical significance was not reached. The relative benefits and harms of these treatments remain uncertain. Further research, either in the form of an individual patient data meta-analysis involving all relevant trials, or a randomized controlled trial with sufficient power to detect potential differences between treatments, is needed. PATIENT SUMMARY: We examined the literature to determine the most effective treatments for advanced kidney cancer patients whose tumors are not of the clear cell subtype. The results suggest that a drug called sunitinib might be more effective than everolimus, but the statistics supporting this statement are not yet entirely reliable. Further research is required to clarify this unmet medical need.

Ferreira, F., et al. (2018). "Effectiveness of robot therapy on body function and structure in people with limited upper limb function: A systematic review and meta-analysis." PLoS One 13(7): e0200330.
	Robot-Assisted Therapy (RT) is an innovative approach to neurological rehabilitation that uses intensive, repetitive, interactive, and individualized practice. This systematic review aimed to investigate the effectiveness of RT on the body function and structure of people with upper limb impairments (PROSPERO registration: CRD42017054982). A search strategy conducted on seven databases identified randomized controlled studies. Methodological quality was assessed using the PEDro scale. When possible, the data were pooled, the strength of evidence was assessed using the GRADE system, and the effect sizes were assessed using Cohen coefficient. Subgroup analyses investigated the impact on the estimated effects of the following parameters: methodological quality; portion of the assessed upper limb; duration of stroke; and intervention dose and duration. Thirty-eight studies involving 1174 participants were included. Pooled estimates revealed small effects of RT on motor control and medium effects on strength compared with other intervention (OI) at a short-term follow-up. Standardized differences in means were as follows: 0.3 (95% CI 0.1 to 0.4) and 0.5 (95% CI 0.2 to 0.8). Effects at other time points and on other investigated outcomes related to body function and structure were not found (p>0.05). The strength of the current evidence was usually low quality. Subgroup analyses suggested that the methodological quality, and duration and dose of RT may influence the estimated effects. In conclusion, RT has small effects on motor control and medium effects on strength in people with limited upper limb function. Poor methodological quality, and lower treatment dose and duration may impact negatively the estimated effects.

Ferreira, R. J. O., et al. (2018). "The impact of patient global assessment in the definition of remission as a predictor of long-term radiographic damage in patients with rheumatoid arthritis: protocol for an individual patient data meta-analysis." Acta Reumatol Port 43(1): 52-60.
	BACKGROUND: Remission is the target for management of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and intensification of immunosuppressive therapy is recommended for those that do not achieve this status. Patient global assessment (PGA) is the single patient reported outcome considered in the American College of Rheumatology/European League Against Rheumatism remission criteria, but its use as target has been questioned. The primary aim of this study is to assess whether excluding PGA from the definition of disease remission changes the association of disease remission with long-term radiographic damage and physical function in patients with RA. METHODS: Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis using data from randomized controlled trials of biological and targeted synthetic agents, identified through ClinicalTrials.gov and PubMed. Different remission states will be defined: (i) 4v-remission [tender (TJC28) and swollen 28-joint counts (SJC28) both</=1, C-reactive protein (CRP)</=1 (mg/dl), and PGA</=1 (0-10 scale)], (ii) 4v-near-remission (TJC28</=1, SJC28</=1, CRP</=1, and PGA>1), (iii) non-remission (TJC28>1 or SJC28>1 or CRP>1), all mutually exclusive, and (iv) 3v-remission (TJC28</=1, SJC28</=1, CRP</=1). Likelihood ratios will be used to descriptively compare whether meeting the 3v and 4v-remission criteria in a single visit (at 6 or 12 months) predicts good outcome in the second year (1-2y). Differences in the predictive value of PGA in the definition of remission will be assessed by comparing the three mutually exclusive disease states using logistic regression analysis. Good outcome is defined primarily by radiographic damage (no deterioration in radiographic scores, whatever the instrument used in each trial), and secondarily by functional disability (Health Assessment Questionnaire consistently </=0.5 and no deterioration), and their combination ("overall good outcome"). Additional analyses will consider longer periods over which to (concurrently) define remission status and outcome (between 1-5y and 1-10y), different cut-offs to define good radiographic outcome (change </=0.5, </=3 and </=5 in radiographic score), sustained remission and the influence of treatment and other clinical factors. DISCUSSION: If 4v-remission and 4v-near-remission are associated with a similar probability of good outcomes, particularly regarding structural damage, the 3v-remission (excluding PGA) could be adopted as the target for immunosuppressive therapy. Patients' perspectives would remain essential, but assessed separately from disease activity, using instruments adequate to guide adjunctive therapies. Systematic review registration: PROSPERO, CRD42017057099.

Fiteni, F. and F. Bonnetain (2016). "Surrogate end points for overall survival in breast cancer trials: A review." Breast 29: 44-48.
	Our aim was to review the studies which assessed potential surrogate endpoints for overall survival (OS) in breast cancer trials. A Literature search in PubMed database of studies which assessed potential surrogate endpoints for OS in breast cancer trials was conducted. The surrogacy was assessed with the German institute of Quality and efficiency in Health Care's (IWQiG) framework and the Fleming hierarchy. Thirteen studies were identified. At the neoadjuvant setting, two individual patient data (IPD) meta-analyses and one aggregate data meta-analysis assessing surrogacy of pathological complete response (PCR) were identified. Trial-level association was calculated in one study and the squared correlation was 0.24. Therefore PCR was not judged to be valid surrogate for OS at the neoadjuvant setting according to the IWQiG framework and Fleming hierarchy. At the adjuvant setting, one meta-analysis on aggregate data was identified. 2-year DFS was not judged to be valid surrogate for OS at the neoadjuvant setting according to the IWQiG framework and Fleming hierarchy. At the metastatic setting, six meta-analyses based on aggregate data, three IPD meta-analyses and one retrospective study were identified. Within the IPD meta-analyses, at the trial-level association the squared correlation between the potential surrogates and OS ranged from 0.10 to 0.57 and no endpoint was judged to be valid surrogate for OS at the metastatic setting. The level of evidence available supporting a relationship between OS and potential surrogate endpoints in breast cancer trials is low.

Fiteni, F., et al. (2017). "Surrogate endpoints for overall survival in lung cancer trials: a review." Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 17(5): 447-454.
	INTRODUCTION: Intermediate endpoints are often used as primary endpoints instead of overall survival (OS) in lung cancer trials but they are not systematically validated as surrogate endpoints for OS. Areas covered: The aim of the study was to review the studies which assessed potential surrogate endpoints for OS in lung cancer trials. Expert commentary: Twenty studies were identified. In operable non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) (adjuvant trials) and locally advanced NSCLC (radiotherapy trials), one individual-patient data meta-analysis found a high correlation of disease-free survival (DFS) and progression-free survival (PFS) with OS at patient and trial level. In trials of adjuvant chemotherapy, correlation between disease-free survival DFS and OS were 0.83 at the individual level (95% CI 0.83-0.83) and 0.92 at trial level (95% CI 0.88-0.95). In locally advanced disease, correlation between PFS and OS was 0.77 to 0.85 at the individual level, and 0.89 to 0.97 at trial level. This study provides a 'proof' of the surrogacy of PFS and DFS on OS according to the IQWiG framework and the surrogacy of PFS and DFS on OS was classified level 2 according to Fleming hierarchy. In all the other setting, no endpoint was judged to be valid surrogate for OS.

Fitzpatrick, T., et al. (2018). "Assessment of Long-term Follow-up of Randomized Trial Participants by Linkage to Routinely Collected Data: A Scoping Review and Analysis." JAMA Netw Open 1(8): e186019.
	Importance: Follow-up of participants in randomized trials may be limited by logistic and financial factors. Some important randomized trials have been extended well beyond their original follow-up period by linkage of individual participant information to routinely collected data held in administrative records and registries. Objective: To perform a scoping review of randomized clinical trials extended by record linkage to characterize this literature and explore any additional insights into treatment effectiveness provided by long-term follow-up using record linkage. Data Sources: A literature search in Embase, CINAHL, MEDLINE, and the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials was performed for the period January 1, 1945, through November 25, 2016. Study Selection: Various combinations of search terms were used, as there is no accepted terminology. Determination of study eligibility and extraction of information about trial characteristics and outcomes, for both original and extended trial reports, were performed in duplicate. Data Extraction and Synthesis: Assessment of study eligibility and data extraction were performed independently by 2 reviewers. All analyses were descriptive. Main Outcomes and Measures: Outcomes in the pairs of original and extended trials were categorized according to whether any benefits or harms from interventions were sustained, were lost, or emerged during long-term follow-up. Results: A total of 113 extended trials were included in the study. Linkage to administrative and registry data extended follow-up by between 1 and 55 years. The most common interventions were pharmaceuticals (47 [41.6%]), surgery (19 [16.8%]), and disease screening (19 [16.8%]). End points most frequently studied through record linkage included mortality (88 [77.9%]), cancer (41 [36.3%]), and cardiovascular events (37 [32.7%]). One hundred four trial extensions (92.0%) were analyzed according to the original trial randomization. The reports provided details of 155 analyses of study outcomes. Seventy-four analyses (47.7%) identified statistically significant benefits in the trial extension phase. In 21 of these (28.4%), benefits were significant only in this period. Null results in both the original and extended trials were seen in 34 of the analyses (21.9%). Loss of significant benefits of an intervention were seen in 12 analyses (7.7%). Statistically significant harms were seen in 16 trial extension analyses (10.3%), and in 14 of these (87.5%), the harms were significant only in the trial extension phase. Conclusions and Relevance: Trial extension by linkage to routinely collected data is a versatile underused approach that may add critical insights beyond those of the original trial. Some beneficial and harmful outcomes of interventions are captured only in the extension phase of randomized trials.

Fogarty, M., et al. (2018). "Delayed vs early umbilical cord clamping for preterm infants: a systematic review and meta-analysis." Am J Obstet Gynecol 218(1): 1-18.
	BACKGROUND: The effects of delayed cord clamping of the umbilical cord in preterm infants are unclear. OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare the effects of delayed vs early cord clamping on hospital mortality (primary outcome) and morbidity in preterm infants using Cochrane Collaboration neonatal review group methodology. STUDY DESIGN: We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and Chinese articles, cross-referencing citations, expert informants, and trial registries to July 31, 2017, for randomized controlled trials of delayed (>/=30 seconds) vs early (<30 seconds) clamping in infants born <37 weeks' gestation. Before searching the literature, we specified that trials estimated to have cord milking in >20% of infants in any arm would be ineligible. Two reviewers independently selected studies, assessed bias, and extracted data. Relative risk (ie, risk ratio), risk difference, and mean difference with 95% confidence intervals were assessed by fixed effects models, heterogeneity by I(2) statistics, and the quality of evidence by Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations. RESULTS: Eighteen randomized controlled trials compared delayed vs early clamping in 2834 infants. Most infants allocated to have delayed clamping were assigned a delay of >/=60 seconds. Delayed clamping reduced hospital mortality (risk ratio, 0.68; 95% confidence interval, 0.52-0.90; risk difference, -0.03; 95% confidence interval, -0.05 to -0.01; P = .005; number needed to benefit, 33; 95% confidence interval, 20-100; Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluations = high, with I(2) = 0 indicating no heterogeneity). In 3 trials in 996 infants </=28 weeks' gestation, delayed clamping reduced hospital mortality (risk ratio, 0.70; 95% confidence interval, 0.51-0.95; risk difference, -0.05; 95% confidence interval, -0.09 to -0.01; P = .02, number needed to benefit, 20; 95% confidence interval, 11-100; I(2) = 0). In subgroup analyses, delayed clamping reduced the incidence of low Apgar score at 1 minute, but not at 5 minutes, and did not reduce the incidence of intubation for resuscitation, admission temperature, mechanical ventilation, intraventricular hemorrhage, brain injury, chronic lung disease, patent ductus arteriosus, necrotizing enterocolitis, late onset sepsis or retinopathy of prematurity. Delayed clamping increased peak hematocrit by 2.73 percentage points (95% confidence interval, 1.94-3.52; P < .00001) and reduced the proportion of infants having blood transfusion by 10% (95% confidence interval, 6-13%; P < .00001). Potential harms of delayed clamping included polycythemia and hyperbilirubinemia. CONCLUSION: This systematic review provides high-quality evidence that delayed clamping reduced hospital mortality, which supports current guidelines recommending delayed clamping in preterm infants. This review does not evaluate cord milking, which may also be of benefit. Analyses of individual patient data in these and other randomized controlled trials will be critically important in reliably evaluating important secondary outcomes.

Fox, G. J., et al. (2016). "Propensity Score-Based Approaches to Confounding by Indication in Individual Patient Data Meta-Analysis: Non-Standardized Treatment for Multidrug Resistant Tuberculosis." PLoS One 11(3): e0151724.
	BACKGROUND: In the absence of randomized clinical trials, meta-analysis of individual patient data (IPD) from observational studies may provide the most accurate effect estimates for an intervention. However, confounding by indication remains an important concern that can be addressed by incorporating individual patient covariates in different ways. We compared different analytic approaches to account for confounding in IPD from patients treated for multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB). METHODS: Two antibiotic classes were evaluated, fluoroquinolones--considered the cornerstone of effective MDR-TB treatment--and macrolides, which are known to be safe, yet are ineffective in vitro. The primary outcome was treatment success against treatment failure, relapse or death. Effect estimates were obtained using multivariable and propensity-score based approaches. RESULTS: Fluoroquinolone antibiotics were used in 28 included studies, within which 6,612 patients received a fluoroquinolone and 723 patients did not. Macrolides were used in 15 included studies, within which 459 patients received this class of antibiotics and 3,670 did not. Both standard multivariable regression and propensity score-based methods resulted in similar effect estimates for early and late generation fluoroquinolones, while macrolide antibiotics use was associated with reduced treatment success. CONCLUSIONS: In this individual patient data meta-analysis, standard multivariable and propensity-score based methods of adjusting for individual patient covariates for observational studies yielded produced similar effect estimates. Even when adjustment is made for potential confounding, interpretation of adjusted estimates must still consider the potential for residual bias.

Fredericks, S. and T. Yau (2017). "Clinical effectiveness of individual patient education in heart surgery patients: A systematic review and meta-analysis." Int J Nurs Stud 65: 44-53.
	The objective of this systematic review was to compare the effectiveness of individualized patient education interventions to standardized patient education interventions on the rate of readmission, performance of specific health behaviours, depression, anxiety, and cognition during the post-hospital discharge recovery period following cardiovascular surgery. DESIGN AND DATA SOURCES: Randomized controlled trials that included study participants who underwent their first bypass and/or valve replacement surgery; were eighteen years of age or older; and were recovering in the community. REVIEW METHODS: For all data analyzed, data was entered based on the principle of intention to treat. To be included in a given comparison, outcome data had to have been available for at least 80% of those who were randomized. Assessment of statistical heterogeneity was tested. Generic inverse variance methods based on random effects models were used to pool effect estimates across included studies. RESULTS: Seventeen trials involving 2624 study participants where individualized patient education was the primary interventional intent was included in this review. Four studies that included 930 participants reported on hospital readmissions. The sources of bias that remain unclear or were judged as containing high risk of bias most frequently across included trials were blinding of outcome assessment, incomplete outcome data, and selective reporting. An effect of the individualized patient education in reducing hospital readmission rates (Mean Difference: -1.28, 95% CI -1.87 to -0.68, p<0.00), depression (Mean Difference: -23.32, 95% CI -23.70 to -22.95, p<0.00), and anxiety (Mean Difference: -19.34, 95% CI -20.46 to -18.23, p<0.00) was noted. While an increase in the performance of specific health behaviours (Mean Difference: 3.45, 95% CI 3.27-3.63, p<0.00) and cognition (Mean Difference: 11.17, 95% CI 10.66-11.68, p<0.00) was found. Most effect estimates were prone to statistical heterogeneity among the trials. CONCLUSION: The findings from this systematic review suggest favorable effects on the readmission rates. However, a major limitation notes in the current body of evidence relates to the small number of or even lacking number of trials for clinically important outcomes. As well, the individualized patient education intervention is effective in promoting statistically significant changes in quality of life, performance of health behaviours, depression, and anxiety.

Freeman, S. C., et al. (2019). "Identifying inconsistency in network meta-analysis: Is the net heat plot a reliable method?" Stat Med 38(29): 5547-5564.
	One of the biggest challenges for network meta-analysis is inconsistency, which occurs when the direct and indirect evidence conflict. Inconsistency causes problems for the estimation and interpretation of treatment effects and treatment contrasts. Krahn and colleagues proposed the net heat approach as a graphical tool for identifying and locating inconsistency within a network of randomized controlled trials. For networks with a treatment loop, the net heat plot displays statistics calculated by temporarily removing each design one at a time, in turn, and assessing the contribution of each remaining design to the inconsistency. The net heat plot takes the form of a matrix which is displayed graphically with coloring indicating the degree of inconsistency in the network. Applied to a network of individual participant data assessing overall survival in 7531 patients with lung cancer, we were surprised to find no evidence of important inconsistency from the net heat approach; this contradicted other approaches for assessing inconsistency such as the Bucher approach, Cochran's Q statistic, node-splitting, and the inconsistency parameter approach, which all suggested evidence of inconsistency within the network at the 5% level. Further theoretical work shows that the calculations underlying the net heat plot constitute an arbitrary weighting of the direct and indirect evidence which may be misleading. We illustrate this further using a simulation study and a network meta-analysis of 10 treatments for diabetes. We conclude that the net heat plot does not reliably signal inconsistency or identify designs that cause inconsistency.

Fu, Y., et al. (2016). "Identifying placebo responders and predictors of response in osteoarthritis: a protocol for individual patient data meta-analysis." Syst Rev 5(1): 183.
	BACKGROUND: The management of osteoarthritis (OA) is unsatisfactory, as most treatments are not clinically effective over placebo and most drugs have considerable side effects. On average, 75 % of the analgesic effect from OA treatments in clinical trials can be attributed to a placebo response, and this response varies greatly from patient to patient. This individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis aims to identify placebo responders and the potential determinants of the placebo response in OA. METHODS: This study is undertaken in conjunction with the OA Trial Bank, an ongoing international consortium aiming to collect IPD from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) for all treatments of OA. RCTs for each treatment of OA have been systematically searched for, and authors of the relevant trials have been contacted to request the IPD. We will use the IPD of placebo-controlled RCTs held by the OA Trial Bank for this project. The IPD in placebo groups will be used to investigate the placebo response according to the minimum clinically important difference (MCID) threshold (e.g. 20 % pain reduction). Responders to placebo will be compared with non-responders to identify predictors of response. The quality of the trials will be assessed and potential determinants will be examined using multilevel logistic regression analyses. DISCUSSION: This study explores the varying magnitude of the placebo response and the proportion of participants that experience a clinically important placebo effect in OA RCTs. Potential determinants of the placebo response will also be investigated. These determinants may be useful for future studies as it may allow participants to be stratified into groups based on their likely response to placebo. The results of this study may also be useful for pharmaceutical companies, who could improve the design of their studies in order to separate the specific treatment from the non-specific contextual (i.e. placebo) effects. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42016033212.

Gamper, G., et al. (2016). "Vasopressors for hypotensive shock." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2: Cd003709.
	BACKGROUND: Initial goal-directed resuscitation for hypotensive shock usually includes administration of intravenous fluids, followed by initiation of vasopressors. Despite obvious immediate effects of vasopressors on haemodynamics, their effect on patient-relevant outcomes remains controversial. This review was published originally in 2004 and was updated in 2011 and again in 2016. OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to compare the effect of one vasopressor regimen (vasopressor alone, or in combination) versus another vasopressor regimen on mortality in critically ill participants with shock. We further aimed to investigate effects on other patient-relevant outcomes and to assess the influence of bias on the robustness of our effect estimates. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2015 Issue 6), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PASCAL BioMed, CINAHL, BIOSIS and PsycINFO (from inception to June 2015). We performed the original search in November 2003. We also asked experts in the field and searched meta-registries to identify ongoing trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing various vasopressor regimens for hypotensive shock. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors abstracted data independently. They discussed disagreements between them and resolved differences by consulting with a third review author. We used a random-effects model to combine quantitative data. MAIN RESULTS: We identified 28 RCTs (3497 participants) with 1773 mortality outcomes. Six different vasopressors, given alone or in combination, were studied in 12 different comparisons.All 28 studies reported mortality outcomes; 12 studies reported length of stay. Investigators reported other morbidity outcomes in a variable and heterogeneous way. No data were available on quality of life nor on anxiety and depression outcomes. We classified 11 studies as having low risk of bias for the primary outcome of mortality; only four studies fulfilled all trial quality criteria.In summary, researchers reported no differences in total mortality in any comparisons of different vasopressors or combinations in any of the pre-defined analyses (evidence quality ranging from high to very low). More arrhythmias were observed in participants treated with dopamine than in those treated with norepinephrine (high-quality evidence). These findings were consistent among the few large studies and among studies with different levels of within-study bias risk. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence of substantial differences in total mortality between several vasopressors. Dopamine increases the risk of arrhythmia compared with norepinephrine and might increase mortality. Otherwise, evidence of any other differences between any of the six vasopressors examined is insufficient. We identified low risk of bias and high-quality evidence for the comparison of norepinephrine versus dopamine and moderate to very low-quality evidence for all other comparisons, mainly because single comparisons occasionally were based on only a few participants. Increasing evidence indicates that the treatment goals most often employed are of limited clinical value. Our findings suggest that major changes in clinical practice are not needed, but that selection of vasopressors could be better individualised and could be based on clinical variables reflecting hypoperfusion.

Gaudino, M., et al. (2019). "Disagreement Between Randomized and Observational Evidence on the Use of Bilateral Internal Thoracic Artery Grafting: A Meta-Analytic Approach." J Am Heart Assoc 8(23): e014638.
	Background The ART (Arterial Revascularization Trial) showed no difference in survival at 10 years between patients assigned to the single versus bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting strategies. This finding is in contrast with the results of most observational studies, where the use of 2 internal thoracic arteries has been associated with improved survival. Methods and Results We selected propensity-matched studies from the most comprehensive observational meta-analysis on the long-term outcomes of patients receiving 1 versus 2 internal thoracic arteries. Individual participant survival data from each study and the ART were reconstructed using an iterative algorithm that was applied to solve the Kaplan-Meier equations. The reconstructed individual participant survival data were aggregated to obtain combined survival curves and Cox regression hazard ratios with 95% CIs. Individual participant survival data were obtained from 14 matched observational studies (24 123 patients) and the ART. The 10-year survival of the control group of ART was significantly higher than that of the matched observational studies (hazard ratio, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.80-0.93). The 10-year survival of the experimental group of ART was significantly lower than that of the bilateral internal thoracic artery group of the observational studies (hazard ratio, 1.11; 95% CI, 1.03-1.20). Conclusions Both the improved outcome of the control arm and the lower beneficial effect of the intervention had played a role in the difference between observational evidence and ART.

Gauthier, S., et al. (2015). "Cerebrolysin in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled clinical trials." Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord 39(5-6): 332-347.
	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to provide a systematic and quantitative summary of benefit and risk of Cerebrolysin in patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD) and to avoid major deficiencies of an earlier meta-analysis. DESIGN: This is a meta-analysis of randomized double-blind placebo-controlled clinical trials. DATA SOURCES: Trials were identified with the help of PubMed, the Cochrane Dementia Group database, the Center for Collaborative Neurosciences, and references from reviews; no language restrictions were applied. STUDY SELECTION: All randomized double-blind placebo-controlled studies on 30 ml/day of Cerebrolysin in mild-to-moderate AD were included. RESULTS: There were 6 eligible randomized controlled trials comparing Cerebrolysin with placebo. For all studies, either individual patient data and/or published data (aggregate data) were available. Analyses were based on the odds ratio (OR) for dichotomized global clinical change and for safety criteria, on the standardized mean difference (SMD) for pooling of cognitive function, and on the Mann-Whitney statistic (MW) for multivariate analysis of 'global benefit' (combined effect of global clinical change and cognitive function). Cerebrolysin was significantly more effective than placebo at 4 weeks regarding cognitive function (4 weeks: SMD -0.40 points; 95% CI -0.66 to -0.13; p = 0.0031; 6 months: SMD -0.37 points; 95% CI -0.90 to 0.16; p = 0.1710), at 4 weeks and 6 months regarding global clinical change (4 weeks: OR 3.32; 95% CI 1.20-9.21; p = 0.0212; 6 months: OR 4.98; 95% CI 1.37-18.13; p = 0.0150), and at 4 weeks and 6 months regarding 'global benefit' (combined efficacy criteria; 4 weeks: MW 0.57, 95% CI 0.53-0.61; p = 0.0006; 6 months: MW 0.57; 95% CI 0.53-0.61; p = 0.0010). The safety aspects of Cerebrolysin were comparable to placebo. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis provides evidence that Cerebrolysin has an overall beneficial effect and a favorable benefit-risk ratio in patients with mild-to-moderate AD. Cerebrolysin as a therapeutic agent should be considered by clinicians seeking treatment options for mild-to-moderate AD.

Ge, L., et al. (2019). "A systematic review and network meta-analysis protocol of adjuvant chemotherapy regimens for resected gastric cancer." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(7): e14478.
	BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer is the third leading cause of cancer death in the world. The benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy has been demonstrated by published individual patient data meta-analysis and Cochrane systematic review. However, there is no consensus on which is the optimal adjuvant chemotherapy regimens. Present network meta-analysis aims to compare the differences of effect between all available adjuvant chemotherapy regimens in improving overall survival and disease-free survival, and to rate the certainty of evidence from present network meta-analysis. METHODS: We will conduct this systematic review and network meta-analysis using Bayesian method and according to Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic review and Meta-Analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P) statement. We will search PubMed, EMBASE.com, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Chinese National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), and Chinese Biological Medical Database (CBM), and ClinicalTrials.gov (http://clinicaltrials.gov/) to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing adjuvant chemotherapy to surgery alone. We will assess the risk of bias of individual RCTs using a modified version of Cochrane tool. We will also use the advance of GRADE to rate the certainty of network meta-analysis. Data analysis will be performed with R-3.4.1 and WinBUGS software. RESULTS: The results of this study will be published in a peer-reviewed journal. DISCUSSION: To the best of our knowledge, this systematic review and network meta-analysis will firstly use both direct and indirect evidence to compare the differences of all available adjuvant chemotherapy regimens for resected gastric cancer patients. This is a protocol of systematic review and meta-analysis, so the ethical approval and patient consent are not required.

Gerson, L., et al. (2018). "Transoral Incisionless Fundoplication (TIF 2.0): A Meta-Analysis of Three Randomized, Controlled Clinical Trials." Chirurgia (Bucur) 113(2): 173-184.
	BACKGROUND AIMS: The TIF procedure has emerged as an endoscopic treatment for patients with refractory gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD). Previous systematic reviews of the TIF procedure conflated findings from studies with modalities that do not reflect the current 2.0 procedure technique or refined data-backed patient selection criteria. A meta-analysis was conducted using data only from randomized studies that assessed the TIF 2.0 procedure compared to a control. The purpose of the meta-analysis was to determine the efficacy and long-term outcomes associated with performance of the TIF 2.0 procedure in patients with chronic long-term refractory GERD on optimized PPI therapy, including esophageal pH, PPI utilization and quality of life. Methods: Three prospective research questions were predicated on the outcomes of the TIF procedure compared to patients who received PPI therapy or sham, concomitant treatment for GERD, and the patient-reported quality of life. Event rates were calculated using the random effect model. Since the time of follow-up post-TIF procedure was variable, analysis was performed to incorporate the time of follow-up for each individual patient at the 3-year time point. Results: Results from this meta-analysis, including data from 233 patients, demonstrated that TIF subjects at 3 years had improved esophageal pH, a decrease in PPI utilization, and improved quality of life. Conclusions: In a meta-analysis of randomized, controlled trials (RCTs), the TIF procedure data for patients with GERD refractory to PPI's produces significant changes, compared with sham or PPI therapy, in esophageal pH, decreased PPI utilization, and improved quality of life.

Giacoppo, D., et al. (2017). "Percutaneous Coronary Intervention vs Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting in Patients With Left Main Coronary Artery Stenosis: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis." JAMA Cardiol 2(10): 1079-1088.
	Importance: In patients with left main coronary artery (LMCA) stenosis, coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) has been the standard therapy for several decades. However, some studies suggest that percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug-eluting stents may be an acceptable alternative. Objective: To compare the long-term safety of PCI with drug-eluting stent vs CABG in patients with LMCA stenosis. Data Sources: PubMed, Scopus, EMBASE, Web of Knowledge, and ScienceDirect databases were searched from December 18, 2001, to February 1, 2017. Inclusion criteria were randomized clinical trial, patients with LMCA stenosis, PCI vs CABG, exclusive use of drug-eluting stents, and clinical follow-up of 3 or more years. Data Extraction and Synthesis: Trial-level hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% CIs were pooled by fixed-effect and random-effects models with inverse variance weighting. Time-to-event individual patient data for the primary end point were reconstructed. Sensitivity analyses according to drug-eluting stent generation and coronary artery disease complexity were performed. Main Outcomes and Measures: The primary end point was a composite of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, or stroke at long-term follow-up. Secondary end points included repeat revascularization and a composite of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, stroke, or repeat revascularization at long-term follow-up. Results: A total of 4 randomized clinical trials were pooled; 4394 patients were included in the analysis. Of these, 3371 (76.7%) were men; pooled mean age was 65.4 years. According to Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation, evidence quality with respect to the primary composite end point was high. Percutaneous coronary intervention and CABG were associated with a comparable risk of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, or stroke both by fixed-effect (HR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.90-1.24; P = .48) and random-effects (HR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.85-1.32; P = .60) analysis. Sensitivity analyses according to low to intermediate Synergy Between PCI With Taxus and Cardiac Surgery (SYNTAX) score (random-effects: HR, 1.02; 95% CI, 0.74-1.41; P = .89) and drug-eluting stent generation (first generation: HR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.68-1.20; P = .49; second generation: HR, 1.19; 95% CI, 0.82-1.73; P = .36) were consistent. Kaplan-Meier curve reconstruction did not show significant variations over time between the techniques, with a 5-year incidence of all-cause death, myocardial infarction, or stroke of 18.3% (319 events) in patients treated with PCI and 16.9% (292 events) in patients treated with CABG. However, repeat revascularization after PCI was increased (HR, 1.70; 95% CI, 1.42-2.05; P < .001). Other individual secondary end points did not differ significantly between groups. Finally, pooled estimates of trials with LMCA stenosis tended overall to differ significantly from those of trials with multivessel coronary artery disease without left main LMCA stenosis. Conclusions and Relevance: Percutaneous coronary intervention and CABG show comparable safety in patients with LMCA stenosis and low to intermediate-complexity coronary artery disease. However, repeat revascularization is more common after PCI.

Giannetti, E. and A. Staiano (2016). "Probiotics for Irritable Bowel Syndrome: Clinical Data in Children." J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr 63 Suppl 1: S25-26.
	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review was to summarize the evidence regarding probiotics treatment for pediatric IBS. RECENT FINDINGS: The overall management of children with IBS should be tailored to the patient's specific symptoms and identifiable triggers. The four major therapeutic approaches include: pharmacologic, dietary, psychosocial, and complementary/alternative medicine interventions.Although there is limited evidence for efficacy of pharmacological therapies such as antispasmodics and anti-diarrheals, these may have a role in severe cases. A Cochrane review concluded that only weak evidence exists regarding beneficial effects of pharmacological agents in providing relief from symptoms in functional abdominal pain (AP) in children. Role of antibiotics in treatment of children with IBS remains controversial. Various non-pharmacologic treatments are available for pediatric IBS. In a recent systematic review including 24 studies some evidence was found indicating beneficial effects of partially hydrolyzed guar gum (PHGG), cognitive behavioral therapy, hypnotherapy, and probiotics (LGG and VSL#3).Few randomized clinical trials (RCTs) are available in children. A meta-analysis including 9 trials which tested different probiotics as a treatment for Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders (FGIDs) in children and adolescents concluded that Lactobacillus GG, Lactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 and VSL#3 significantly increased treatment success. We recently showed that, in children with IBS, a mixture of Bifidobacterium infantis M-63(R), breve M-16V(R) and longum BB536(R) is safe and is associated with better AP control and improved quality of life when compared to placebo. SUMMARY: Probiotics are emerging as new therapeutic tools in FGIDs, due to the recognition of the importance of gut microbiota in influencing brain-gut interactions, and of the role played by intestinal infections in the genesis of AP-FGIDs. Preclinical data suggest that changes in the gut microbiota can affect brain signaling systems related to pain and associated emotional behavior. Therefore, probiotics could play a relevant role in the management of FGIDs, by affecting the gut microbiota or by altering brain function and pain perception centrally.

Giglio, M. C., et al. (2016). "Oncological Outcomes of Major Liver Resection Following Portal Vein Embolization: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis." Ann Surg Oncol 23(11): 3709-3717.
	BACKGROUND: Preoperative portal vein occlusion with either percutaneous portal vein embolization (PVE) or portal vein ligation is routinely used to induce liver hypertrophy prior to major liver resection in patients with hepatic malignancy. While this increases the future liver remnant, and hence the number of patients suitable for resection, recent evidence suggests that induction of liver hypertrophy preoperatively may promote tumor growth and increase recurrence rates. The aims of this current study were to evaluate the impact of PVE on hepatic recurrence rate and survival in patients with colorectal liver metastases (CRLM). METHODS: The MEDLINE, EMBASE and Web of Science databases were searched to identify studies assessing the oncological outcomes of patients undergoing major liver resection for CRLM following PVE. Studies comparing patients undergoing one-stage liver resection with or without preoperative PVE were included. The primary outcome was postoperative hepatic recurrence (PHR), while secondary outcomes were 3- and 5-year overall survival (OS). RESULTS: Of the 2131 studies identified, six non-randomized studies (n = 668) met the eligibility criteria, comparing outcomes of patients undergoing major liver resection with or without PVE (n = 182 and n = 486, respectively). No significant difference was observed in PHR (odds ratio [OR] 0.78; 95 % confidence interval [CI] 0.42-1.44), 3-year OS (OR 0.80; 95 % CI 0.56-1.14) or 5-year OS (OR 1.12; 95 % CI 0.40-3.11). CONCLUSIONS: PVE does not have any adverse effect on PHR or OS in patients undergoing major liver resection for CRLM. Further studies based on individual patient data are needed to provide definitive answers.

Giugliano, D., et al. (2016). "Intensification of insulin therapy with basal-bolus or premixed insulin regimens in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials." Endocrine 51(3): 417-428.
	The purpose of this study was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the effect of intensified insulin regimens (basal-bolus versus premixed) on glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes. We conducted an electronic search until March 2015 on many electronic databases including online registries of ongoing trials. All RCTs comparing basal-bolus with premixed insulin regimens, with a duration of >12 weeks and with >30 patients per arm, were included. Investigators extracted data on study characteristics, outcome measures, and methodological quality. We found thirteen RCTs lasting 16-60 weeks and involving 5255 patients assessed for the primary endpoint (reduction of HbA1c from baseline). Meta-analysis of change in HbA1c level between basal-bolus and premixed insulin regimens resulted in a small and non-significant difference of 0.09% (95% CI -0.03 to 0.21), with substantial heterogeneity between studies (I(2) = 74.4%). There was no statistically significant difference in the event rate for overall hypoglycemia (0.16 episode/patient/year, 95%CI -2.07 to 2.3), weight change (-0.21 kg, -0.164 to 0.185), and daily insulin dose (-0.54 U/day, -2.7 to 1.6). The likelihood for reaching the HbA1c <7% was 8% higher (3-13%, I(2) = 68.8%) with the basal-bolus as compared with the premixed regimen. There is no clinically relevant difference in the efficacy of basal-bolus versus premixed insulin regimens for HbA1c decrease in type 2 diabetic patients. These findings may be helpful to adapt treatment to individual patient needs.

Goldstein, K. M., et al. (2017). VA Evidence-based Synthesis Program Reports. Telehealth Services Designed for Women: An Evidence Map. Washington (DC), Department of Veterans Affairs (US).
	BACKGROUND: Telehealth encompasses a variety of technologies and approaches to connect individual patients to health care resources with the goal of delivering the right intervention to the right patient at the right time. The Department of Veterans Affairs has been on the forefront of implementing telehealth solutions as a way to extend care to key populations of interest or to overcome barriers to receiving timely and high-quality care. Women Veterans are one such key population who could benefit from the flexibility and access afforded by telehealth because they are geographically dispersed within the Veterans Health Administration and have gender-specific care needs. Thus, the goal of this report was to conduct an evidence map that characterizes the quantity, distribution, and characteristics of evidence which assesses the effectiveness of telehealth services designed specifically for women. METHODS: We searched MEDLINE(R) (via PubMed(R)) and Embase(R) to identify relevant articles and systematic reviews (SRs) published between inception and December 29, 2016, for peer-reviewed, English-language, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), nonrandomized controlled studies, controlled before-after studies, interrupted time-series or repeated-measures studies, and relevant SRs or patient-level meta-analyses of telehealth interventions designed for women. We conducted article inclusion screening and abstraction based on predetermined criteria such as type of study design used, population recruited, and intervention tested. Two reviewers independently evaluated titles and abstracts to identify potentially eligible primary studies and SRs for full-text review. Because of the large volume of primary studies, at the full-text screening stage a trained independent reviewer made eligibility decisions, of which at least a random sample of 20% was dual-reviewed. The SRs were examined separately by 2 team members. Disagreements were resolved by consensus between the 2 investigators or by a third investigator. Articles meeting eligibility criteria were included for data abstraction. RESULTS: The literature search identified 5305 unique citations, of which 590 primary studies and 21 SRs were promoted to full-text review. Of these, 209 studies and 2 SRs were retained for data abstraction. From these, 81 primary studies and 1 SR related to maternal care, 56 to prevention, 43 to disease management, 11 to family planning, 7 to identifying and managing women at high risk for breast cancer, 6 to mental health, and 5 studies and 1 SR to intimate partner violence (IPV). When looking across these 7 focused areas of research, the majority of studies identified were relatively small (n <250). For studies that provided race and ethnic study composition, the overwhelming majority of studies included populations that were predominantly white. Age distributions in this literature tracked with population distributions of women potentially affected by the identified health issues. However, we found relatively few studies that focused on health issues of women 60 years of age and older across the reports on prevention, disease management, mental health, and intimate partner violence. When mapping the setting of telehealth interventions designed for women, the overwhelming majority of studies was conducted in countries categorized as high income by the World Bank. The only exception to this was in the area of family planning, where half the studies were conducted in middle- and low-income countries. When looking across the literature, most studies recruited from outpatient clinics (including specialty outpatient clinics), followed by the community. Across all areas of research, telephone was the dominant telehealth modality to deliver intervention content. Nearly all studies used telehealth technologies to facilitate communication between patients and health care team members. We identified only 1 study that focused on provider-to-provider communication. Very few telehealth interventionists were physicians or advanced practice providers (eg, nurse practitioners, physician assistants). Instead, the interventions were mostly supported by diverse credentialed and noncredentialed positions (eg, registered nurses, behavioral health specialists, health educators, peer or lay health workers). The majority of studies were limited in their duration and did not extend beyond 12 weeks. The only exception was among studies focused on prevention; the majority of these were 25 weeks or more. We also mapped the outcomes addressed in each study. Of the studies that reported primary outcomes, most focused on patient-level outcomes. No studies focused on provider-level outcomes, and only 11 studies reported primary outcomes focused on the system level. CONCLUSIONS: Telehealth offers a potentially ideal approach to deliver targeted support to women Veterans in a manner that is convenient to the patient and does not require traveling long distances. From a provider and system level, telehealth provides additional tools to aid the facilitation of continuity of care and transitions of care (eg, post-acute care) and can be a powerful tool for population health management. The goal of this report was to provide an overview of current evidence for the use of telehealth services designed specifically for women. To our knowledge, this is the first attempt to map this literature base. A key use of these evidence maps is to inform decisions about where more primary research is needed. The maps in this report serve as a broad visualization of the field of telehealth interventions for women. Beyond maternal health care, we identified a relatively small number of telehealth studies that addressed other gender-specific needs of women Veterans that warrant further exploration, such as family planning, IPV, homelessness, pain management, and high-risk breast cancer assessment. Also, outside of postpartum depression, few studies used telehealth interventions to address the mental health needs of women. Further, mobile health technologies were underrepresented, emphasizing the need to study how best to use evolving technology to address the needs of women. Finally, there is a need for research on the extent to which telehealth improves provider- and system-level outcomes related to provider satisfaction and retention and patient access to care. Only after conducting studies that address these key research gaps can the promise of telehealth for optimizing the well-being of women Veterans be fully assessed. Because the VA is a large, integrated health care system that has demonstrated a commitment to the development and use of telehealth modalities and has been a setting for the successful conduct of multisite studies, the VA health care system is well-positioned to address the gaps in the women's telehealth literature.

Gomez-Gomez, A., et al. (2017). "Efficacy and safety of immunomodulatory drugs in patients with anterior uveitis: A systematic literature review." Medicine (Baltimore) 96(42): e8045.
	BACKGROUND: To assess the efficacy and safety of immunomodulatory drugs in patients with noninfectious anterior uveitis (AU). METHODS: Systematic review of studies were retrieved from Medline (1961 to March 2016), Embase (1961 to March 2016), and Cochrane Library (up to March 2016), and a complementary hand search was also performed. The selection criteria were as follows: (population) noninfectious AU patients, adults; (intervention) immunomodulatory drugs (any dose, regimen, route of administration, duration of treatment); (outcome) control of inflammation, steroid-sparing effect, AU flares, adverse events, and so on; (study design) systematic literature reviews, randomized controlled trials, and observational studies. The study quality was assessed using the Jadad scale and according to The Oxford Centre for Evidence-based Medicine (update 2009). RESULTS: We included 13 studies of moderate-poor quality, with a mean duration from 5 months to 20 years, and number of AU patients ranging from 9 to 274. Patient's demographic and clinical characteristics were very heterogeneous. In most cases, uveitis anatomic classification criteria and outcomes definitions were unclear. Some of the studies only included AU patients with a systemic disease associated, mostly spondyloarthritis, others, mixed populations (idiopathic and systemic disease associated patients), and in some articles this data is not described. We found that methotrexate, cyclosporine A, azathioprine, adalimumab, and golimumab might prevent AU flares, improve ocular inflammation and visual acuity, and decrease systemic steroids doses. CONCLUSIONS: Although there is a lack of robust evidence, methotrexate, cyclosporine A, azathioprine, adalimumab, and golimumab might be effective in AU patients.

Gopaluni, S., et al. (2016). "Interventions for chronic kidney disease-associated restless legs syndrome." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 11: Cd010690.
	BACKGROUND: Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is defined as the spontaneous movement of the limbs (mainly legs) associated with unpleasant, sometimes painful sensation which is relieved by moving the affected limb. Prevalence of RLS among people on dialysis has been estimated between 6.6% and 80%. RLS symptoms contribute to impaired quality of life and people with RLS are shown to have increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.Various pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions have been used to treat primary RLS. However, the evidence for use of these interventions in people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is not well established. The agents used in the treatment of primary RLS may be limited by the side effects in people with CKD due to increased comorbidity and altered drug pharmacokinetics. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this review was to critically look at the benefits, efficacy and safety of various treatment options used in the treatment of RLS in people with CKD and those undergoing renal replacement therapy (RRT). We aimed to define different group characteristics based on CKD stage to assess the applicability of a particular intervention to an individual patient. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Specialised Register to 12 January 2016 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCT) and quasi-RCTs that assessed the efficacy of an intervention for RLS in adults with CKD were eligible for inclusion. Studies investigating idiopathic RLS or RLS secondary to other causes were excluded. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed studies for eligibility and conducted risk of bias evaluation. Results were expressed as risk ratios (RR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous outcomes, and mean difference (MD) and 95% CI for continuous outcomes. MAIN RESULTS: We included nine studies enrolling 220 dialysis participants. Seven studies were deemed to have moderate to high risk of bias. All studies were small in size and had a short follow-up period (two to six months). Studies evaluated the effects of six different interventions against placebo or standard treatment. The interventions studied included aerobic resistance exercise, gabapentin, ropinirole, levodopa, iron dextran, and vitamins C and E (individually and in combination).Aerobic resistance exercise showed a significant reduction in severity of RLS compared to no exercise (2 studies, 48 participants: MD -7.56, 95% CI -14.20 to -0.93; I(2) = 65%), and when compared to exercise with no resistance (1 study, 24 participants: MD -11.10, 95% CI -17.11 to -5.09), however there was no significant reduction when compared to ropinirole (1 study, 22 participants): MD -0.55, 95% CI -6.41 to 5.31). There were no significant differences between aerobic resistance exercise and either no exercise or ropinirole in the physical or mental component summary scores (using the SF-36 form). Improvement in sleep quality varied. There was no significant difference in subjective sleep quality between exercise and no exercise; however one study reported a significant improvement with ropinirole compared to resistance exercise (MD 3.71, 95% CI 0.89 to 6.53). Using the Epworth Sleepiness Scale there were no significant differences between resistance exercise and no exercise, ropinirole, or exercise with no resistance. Two studies reported there were no adverse events and one study did not mention if there were any adverse events. In one study, one patient in each group dropped out but the reason for dropout was not reported. Two studies reported no adverse events and one study did not report adverse events.Gabapentin was associated with reduced RLS severity when compared to placebo or levodopa, and there was a significant improvement in sleep quality, latency and disturbance reported in one study when compared to levodopa. Three patients dropped out due to lethargy (2 patients), and drowsiness, syncope and fatigue (1 patient).Because of a short duration of action, rebound and augmentation were noted with levodopa treatment even though it conferred some benefit in reducing the symptoms of RLS. Reported adverse events were severe vomiting, agitation after caffeine intake, headaches, dry mouth, and gastrointestinal symptoms.One study (25 participants) reported iron dextran reduced the severity of RLS at weeks one and two, but not at week four. Vitamins C, E and C plus E (1 study, 60 participants) helped the symptoms of RLS with minimal side effects (nausea and dyspepsia) but more evidence is needed before any conclusions can be drawn. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Given the small size of the studies and short follow-up, it can only be concluded that pharmacological interventions and intra-dialytic exercise programs have uncertain effects on RLS in haemodialysis patients. There have been no studies performed in non-dialysis CKD, peritoneal dialysis patients, or kidney transplant recipients. Further studies are warranted before any conclusions can be drawn. Aerobic resistance exercise and ropinirole may be suitable interventions for further evaluation.

Graham, C., et al. (2017). "The FOCUS, AFFINITY and EFFECTS trials studying the effect(s) of fluoxetine in patients with a recent stroke: statistical and health economic analysis plan for the trials and for the individual patient data meta-analysis." Trials 18(1): 627.
	BACKGROUND: Small trials have suggested that fluoxetine may improve neurological recovery from stroke. FOCUS, AFFINITY and EFFECTS are a family of investigator-led, multicentre, parallel group, randomised, placebo-controlled trials which aim to determine whether the routine administration of fluoxetine (20 mg daily) for six months after an acute stroke improves patients' functional outcome. METHODS/DESIGN: The core protocol for the three trials has been published (Mead et al., Trials 20:369, 2015). The trials include patients aged 18 years and older with a clinical diagnosis of stroke and persisting focal neurological deficits at randomisation 2-15 days after stroke onset. Patients are randomised centrally via each trials' web-based randomisation system using a common minimisation algorithm. Patients are allocated fluoxetine 20 mg once daily or matching placebo capsules for six months. The primary outcome measure is the modified Rankin scale (mRS) at six months. Secondary outcomes include: living circumstances; the Stroke Impact Scale; EuroQol (EQ5D-5 L); the vitality subscale of the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF36); diagnosis of depression; adherence to medication; serious adverse events including death and recurrent stroke; and resource use at six and 12 months and the mRS at 12 months. DISCUSSION: Minor variations have been tailored to the national setting in the UK (FOCUS), Australia, New Zealand and Vietnam (AFFINITY) and Sweden (EFFECTS). Each trial is run and funded independently and will report its own results. A prospectively planned individual patient data meta-analysis of all three trials will provide the most precise estimate of the overall effect and establish whether any effects differ between trials or subgroups. This statistical analysis plan describes the core analyses for all three trials and that for the individual patient data meta-analysis. Recruitment and follow-up in the FOCUS trial is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. AFFINITY and EFFECTS are likely to complete follow-up in 2020. TRIAL REGISTRATION: FOCUS: ISRCTN , ISRCTN83290762 . Registered on 23 May 2012. EudraCT, 2011-005616-29. Registered on 3 February 2012. AFFINITY: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry, ACTRN12611000774921 . Registered on 22 July 2011. EFFECTS: ISRCTN , ISRCTN13020412 . Registered on 19 December 2014. Clinicaltrials.gov, NCT02683213 . Registered on 2 February 2016. EudraCT, 2011-006130-16 . Registered on 8 August 2014.

Graves, P. M., et al. (2015). "Primaquine or other 8-aminoquinoline for reducing Plasmodium falciparum transmission." Cochrane Database Syst Rev(2): Cd008152.
	BACKGROUND: Mosquitoes become infected with Plasmodium when they ingest gametocyte-stage parasites from an infected person's blood. Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes are sensitive to 8-aminoquinolines (8AQ), and consequently these drugs could prevent parasite transmission from infected people to mosquitoes and reduce the incidence of malaria. However, when used in this way, these drugs will not directly benefit the individual.In 2010, the World Health Organization (WHO) recommended a single dose of primaquine (PQ) at 0.75 mg/kg alongside treatment for P. falciparum malaria to reduce transmission in areas approaching malaria elimination. In 2013, the WHO revised this to 0.25 mg/kg to reduce risk of harms in people with G6PD deficiency. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of PQ (or an alternative 8AQ) given alongside treatment for P. falciparum malaria on malaria transmission and on the occurrence of adverse events. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases up to 5 January 2015: the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), published in The Cochrane Library (Issue 1, 2015); MEDLINE (1966 to 5 January 2015); EMBASE (1980 to 5 January 2015); LILACS (1982 to 5 January 2015); metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT); and the WHO trials search portal using 'malaria*', 'falciparum', 'primaquine', 8-aminoquinoline and eight individual 8AQ drug names as search terms. In addition, we searched conference proceedings and reference lists of included studies, and contacted researchers and organizations. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi-RCTs in children or adults, comparing PQ (or alternative 8AQ) as a single dose or short course alongside treatment for P. falciparum malaria, with the same malaria treatment given without PQ/8AQ. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened all abstracts, applied inclusion criteria and extracted data. We sought evidence of an impact on transmission (community incidence), infectiousness (mosquitoes infected from humans) and potential infectiousness (gametocyte measures). We calculated the area under the curve (AUC) for gametocyte density over time for comparisons for which data were available. We sought data on haematological and other adverse effects, asexual parasite clearance time and recrudescence. We stratified the analysis by artemisinin and non-artemisinin treatments; and by PQ dose (low < 0.4 mg/kg; medium >/= 0.4 to < 0.6 mg/kg; high >/= 0.6 mg/kg). We used the GRADE approach to assess evidence quality. MAIN RESULTS: We included 17 RCTs and one quasi-RCT. Eight trials tested for G6PD status: six then excluded participants with G6PD deficiency, one included only those with G6PD deficiency, and one included all irrespective of status. The remaining 10 trials either did not report on whether they tested (eight trials), or reported that they did not test (two trials).Nine trials included study arms with artemisinin-based treatments and eleven included study arms with non-artemisinin-based treatments.Only one trial evaluated PQ given as a single dose of less than 0.4 mg/kg. PQ with artemisinin-based treatments: No trials evaluated effects on malaria transmission directly (incidence, prevalence or entomological inoculation rate) and none evaluated infectiousness to mosquitoes. For potential infectiousness, the proportion of people with detectable gametocytaemia on day eight was reduced by around two-thirds with the high dose PQ category (RR 0.29, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.22 to 0.37; seven trials, 1380 participants, high quality evidence) and the medium dose PQ category (RR 0.30, 95% CI 0.16 to 0.56; one trial, 219 participants, moderate quality evidence). For the low dose category, the effect size was smaller and the 95% CIs include the possibility of no effect (dose: 0.1 mg/kg: RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.44 to 1.02; one trial, 223 participants, low quality evidence). Reductions in log(10)AUC estimates for gametocytaemia on days 1 to 43 with medium and high doses ranged from 24.3% to 87.5%. For haemolysis, one trial reported percent change in mean haemoglobin against baseline and did not detect a difference between the two arms (very low quality evidence). PQ with non-artemisinin treatments: No trials assessed effects on malaria transmission directly. Two small trials from the same laboratory in China evaluated infectiousness to mosquitoes, and reported that infectivity was eliminated on day 8 in 15/15 patients receiving high dose PQ compared to 1/15 in the control group (low quality evidence). For potential infectiousness, the proportion of people with detectable gametocytaemia on day 8 was reduced by three-fifths with high dose PQ category (RR 0.39, 95% CI 0.25 to 0.62; four trials, 186 participants, high quality evidence), and by around two-fifths with medium dose category (RR 0.60, 95% CI 0.49 to 0.75; one trial, 216 participants, high quality evidence), with no trial in the low dose PQ category reporting this outcome. Reduction in log(10)AUC for gametocytaemia days 1 to 43 were 24.3% and 27.1% for two arms in one trial giving medium dose PQ. No trials systematically sought evidence of haemolysis.Two trials evaluated the 8AQ bulaquine, and suggest the effects may be greater than PQ, but the small number of participants (N = 112) preclude a definite conclusion. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: In individual patients, PQ added to malaria treatments reduces gametocyte prevalence, but this is based on trials using doses of more than 0.4 mg/kg. Whether this translates into preventing people transmitting malaria to mosquitoes has rarely been tested in controlled trials, but there appeared to be a strong reduction in infectiousness in the two small studies that evaluated this. No included trials evaluated whether this policy has an impact on community malaria transmission.For the currently recommended low dose regimen, there is currently little direct evidence to be confident that the effect of reduction in gametocyte prevalence is preserved, or that it is safe in people with G6PD deficiency.

Greving, J. P., et al. (2019). "Antiplatelet Therapy After Noncardioembolic Stroke." Stroke 50(7): 1812-1818.
	Background and Purpose- We assessed the efficacy and safety of antiplatelet agents after noncardioembolic stroke or transient ischemic attack and examined how these vary according to patients' demographic and clinical characteristics. Methods- We did a network meta-analysis (NMA) of data from 6 randomized trials of the effects of commonly prescribed antiplatelet agents in the long-term (>/=3 months) secondary prevention of noncardioembolic stroke or transient ischemic attack. Individual patient data from 43 112 patients were pooled and reanalyzed. Main outcomes were serious vascular events (nonfatal stroke, nonfatal myocardial infarction, or vascular death), major bleeding, and net clinical benefit (serious vascular event or major bleeding). Subgroup analyses were done according to age, sex, ethnicity, hypertension, qualifying diagnosis, type of vessel involved (large versus small vessel disease), and time from qualifying event to randomization. Results- Aspirin/dipyridamole combination (RRNMA-adj, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.74-0.94) significantly reduced the risk of vascular events compared with aspirin, as did clopidogrel (RRNMA-adj, 0.88; 95% CI, 0.78-0.98), and aspirin/clopidogrel combination (RRNMA-adj, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.71-0.96). Clopidogrel caused significantly less major bleeding and intracranial hemorrhage than aspirin, aspirin/dipyridamole combination, and aspirin/clopidogrel combination. Aspirin/clopidogrel combination caused significantly more major bleeding than aspirin, aspirin/dipyridamole combination, and clopidogrel. Net clinical benefit was similar for clopidogrel and aspirin/dipyridamole combination (RRNMA-adj, 0.99; 95% CI, 0.93-1.05). Subgroup analyses showed no heterogeneity of treatment effectiveness across prespecified subgroups. The excess risk of major bleeding associated with aspirin/clopidogrel combination compared with clopidogrel alone was higher in patients aged <65 years than it was in patients >/=65 years (RRNMA-adj, 3.9 versus 1.7). Conclusions- Results favor clopidogrel and aspirin/dipyridamole combination for long-term secondary prevention after noncardioembolic stroke or transient ischemic attack, regardless of patient characteristics. Aspirin/clopidogrel combination was associated with a significantly higher risk of major bleeding compared with other antiplatelet regimens.

Groom, K. M. and A. L. David (2018). "The role of aspirin, heparin, and other interventions in the prevention and treatment of fetal growth restriction." Am J Obstet Gynecol 218(2s): S829-s840.
	Fetal growth restriction and related placental pathologies such as preeclampsia, stillbirth, and placental abruption are believed to arise in early pregnancy when inadequate remodeling of the maternal spiral arteries leads to persistent high-resistance and low-flow uteroplacental circulation. The consequent placental ischaemia, reperfusion injury, and oxidative stress are associated with an imbalance in angiogenic/antiangiogenic factors. Many interventions have centered on the prevention and/or treatment of preeclampsia with results pertaining to fetal growth restriction and small-for-gestational-age pregnancy often included as secondary outcomes because of the common pathophysiology. This renders the study findings less reliable for determining clinical significance. For the prevention of fetal growth restriction, a recent large-study level meta-analysis and individual patient data meta-analysis confirm that aspirin modestly reduces small-for-gestational-age pregnancy in women at high risk (relative risk, 0.90, 95% confidence interval, 0.81-1.00) and that a dose of >/=100 mg should be recommended and to start at or before 16 weeks of gestation. These findings support national clinical practice guidelines. In vitro and in vivo studies suggest that low-molecular-weight heparin may prevent fetal growth restriction; however, evidence from randomized control trials is inconsistent. A meta-analysis of multicenter trial data does not demonstrate any positive preventative effect of low-molecular-weight heparin on a primary composite outcome of placenta-mediated complications including fetal growth restriction (18% vs 18%; absolute risk difference, 0.6%; 95% confidence interval, 10.4-9.2); use of low-molecular-weight heparin for the prevention of fetal growth restriction should remain in the research setting. There are even fewer treatment options once fetal growth restriction is diagnosed. At present the only management option if the risk of hypoxia, acidosis, and intrauterine death is high is iatrogenic preterm birth, with the use of peripartum maternal administration of magnesium sulphate for neuroprotection and corticosteroids for fetal lung maturity, to prevent adverse neonatal outcomes. The pipeline of potential therapies use different strategies, many aiming to increase fetal growth by improving poor placentation and uterine blood flow. Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors that potentiate nitric oxide availability such as sildenafil citrate have been extensively researched both in preclinical and clinical studies; results from the Sildenafil Therapy In Dismal Prognosis Early-Onset Intrauterine Growth Restriction consortium of randomized control clinical trials are keenly awaited. Targeting the uteroplacental circulation with novel therapeutics is another approach, the most advanced being maternal vascular endothelial growth factor gene therapy, which is being translated into the clinic via the doEs Vascular endothelial growth factor gene therapy safEly impRove outcome in seveRe Early-onset fetal growth reSTriction consortium. Other targeting approaches include nanoparticles and microRNAs to deliver drugs locally to the uterine arterial endothelium or trophoblast. In vitro and in vivo studies and animal models have demonstrated effects of nitric oxide donors, dietary nitrate, hydrogen sulphide donors, statins, and proton pump inhibitors on maternal blood pressure, uteroplacental resistance indices, and angiogenic/antiangiogenic factors. Data from human pregnancies and, in particular, pregnancies with fetal growth restriction remain very limited. Early research into melatonin, creatine, and N-acetyl cysteine supplementation in pregnancy suggests they may have potential as neuro- and cardioprotective agents in fetal growth restriction.

Guarino, A., et al. (2015). "Probiotics for Prevention and Treatment of Diarrhea." J Clin Gastroenterol 49 Suppl 1: S37-45.
	Probiotics are increasingly used for prevention and treatment of diarrhea more in children than in adults. Given the broad spectrum of diarrhea, this review focuses on the main etiologies: acute gastroenteritis, antibiotic-associated diarrhea (AAD), and necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC). For each, we reviewed randomized controlled trials, meta-analyses, and guidelines. For acute gastroenteritis we found 12 guidelines: 5 recommended probiotics and 7 did not. However, the guidelines containing positive recommendations provided proof of evidence from clinical trials and meta-analyses. Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) and Saccharomyces boulardii had the most compelling evidence of efficacy as they reduced the duration of the disease by 1 day. For AAD 4 meta-analyses were found, reporting variable efficacy of probiotics in preventing diarrhea, based on the setting, patient's age, and antibiotics. The most effective strains were LGG and S. boulardii. For NEC, we found 3 randomized controlled trials, 5 meta-analyses, and 4 position papers. Probiotics reduced the risk of NEC enterocolitis and mortality in preterm babies. Guidelines did not support a routine use of probiotics and asked for further data for such sensitive implications. In conclusion, there is strong and solid proof of efficacy of probiotics as active treatment of gastroenteritis in addition to rehydration. There is solid evidence that probiotics have some efficacy in prevention of AAD, but the number needed to treat is an issue. For both etiologies LGG and S. boulardii have the strongest evidence. In NEC the indications are more debated, yet on the basis of available data and their implications, probiotics should be carefully considered.

Guariso, G. and M. Gasparetto (2017). "Treating children with inflammatory bowel disease: Current and new perspectives." World J Gastroenterol 23(30): 5469-5485.
	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic inflammatory condition of the gut characterised by alternating periods of remission and relapse. Whilst the mechanism underlying this disease is yet to be fully understood, old and newer generation treatments can only target selected pathways of this complex inflammatory process. This narrative review aims to provide an update on the most recent advances in treatment of paediatric IBD. A MEDLINE search was conducted using "paediatric inflammatory bowel disease", "paediatric Crohn's disease", "paediatric ulcerative colitis", "treatment", "therapy", "immunosuppressant", "biologic", "monitoring" and "biomarkers" as key words. Clinical trials, systematic reviews, and meta-analyses published between 2014 and 2016 were selected. Studies referring to earlier periods were also considered in case the data was relevant to our scope. Major advances have been achieved in monitoring the individual metabolism, toxicity and response to relevant medications in IBD including thiopurines and biologics. New biologics acting on novel mechanisms such as selective interference with lymphocyte trafficking are emerging treatment options. Current research is investing in the development of reliable prognostic biomarkers, aiming to move towards personalised treatments targeted to individual patients.

Guekht, A., et al. (2017). "Safety and efficacy of Cerebrolysin in motor function recovery after stroke: a meta-analysis of the CARS trials." Neurol Sci 38(10): 1761-1769.
	This meta-analysis combines the results of two identical stroke studies (CARS-1 and CARS-2) assessing efficacy of Cerebrolysin on motor recovery during early rehabilitation. Cerebrolysin is a parenterally administered neuropeptide preparation approved for the treatment of stroke. Both studies had a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Treatment with 30 ml Cerebrolysin once daily for 3 weeks was started 24-72 h after stroke onset. In addition, patients participated in a standardized rehabilitation program for 21 days that was initiated within 72 h after stroke onset. For both studies, the original analysis data were used for meta-analysis (individual patient data analysis). The combination of these two studies by meta-analytic procedures was pre-planned, and the methods were pre-defined under blinded conditions. The nonparametric Mann-Whitney (MW) effect size of the two studies on the ARAT score on day 90 indicated superiority of Cerebrolysin compared with placebo (MW 0.62, P < 0.0001, Wei-Lachin pooling procedure, day 90, last observation carried forward; N = 442). Also, analysis of early benefit at day 14 and day 21 by means of the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale, which is regarded as most sensitive to early improvements, showed statistical significance (MW 0.59, P < 0.002). The corresponding number-needed-to-treat (NNT) for clinically relevant changes in early NIHSS was 7.1 (95% CI: 4 to 22). Cerebrolysin had a beneficial effect on motor function and neurological status in early rehabilitation patients after acute ischemic stroke. Safety aspects were comparable to placebo, showing a favourable benefit/risk ratio.

Guirguis-Blake, J. M., et al. (2015). U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic Evidence Reviews. Aspirin for the Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Events: A Systematic Evidence Review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Rockville (MD), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US).
	BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in the United States, contributing to more than a third of deaths annually. PURPOSE: To systematically review evidence for the effectiveness of aspirin to prevent myocardial infarction (MI)/coronary events, stroke, cardiovascular death, and all-cause mortality in those without a history of CVD. To review evidence for harms associated with aspirin use. DATA SOURCES: We searched MEDLINE, PubMed, and the Cochrane Collaboration Registry of Controlled Trials to identify literature that was published between January 2008 and June 2014. We supplemented our searches with reference lists from the previous review, relevant existing systematic reviews, suggestions from experts, and Clinicaltrials.gov to identify ongoing trials. STUDY SELECTION: Two investigators independently reviewed identified abstracts and full-text articles against a set of a priori inclusion and quality criteria. DATA ANALYSIS: One investigator abstracted data into an evidence table and a second investigator checked these data. We conducted Mantel-Haenszel fixed effects meta-analyses to estimate the effect size of aspirin chemoprevention in preventing MI/coronary events, stroke, CVD-related death and all-cause mortality. Additionally, we conducted sensitivity analyses using Peto odds ratios. We qualitatively synthesized the harms related to major gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, hemorrhagic stroke, and age-related macular degeneration to estimate the harms associated with aspirin use. RESULTS: We included 10 fair- to good-quality randomized, controlled trials (RCTs) (N=103,787) examining the effectiveness of aspirin for the primary prevention of CVD. Aspirin reduces the risk of major CVD events (total MI, total stroke, CVD mortality) by 11 percent (relative risk [RR], 0.89 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.84 to 0.95]), which appears to be largely driven by a 20 percent reduction in nonfatal MI/coronary events (RR, 0.80 [95% CI, 0.72 to 0.88]). Aspirin's effectiveness in reducing nonfatal MI/coronary events that were reported in trials of doses ranging from 100 mg every other day to 650 mg daily were also seen with trials using 100 mg or less daily. While primary prevention trials for doses 100 mg every other day to 650 mg daily demonstrated no reduction in stroke events with aspirin use, trials using 100 mg daily or less showed a reduction in total stroke (RR, 0.85 [95% CI, 0.76 to 0.96]). CVD mortality was unchanged with the use of aspirin in these 10 trials. All-cause mortality may be unchanged or slightly reduced with a statistically significant benefit not persistent in dose sensitivity analyses. All trials were powered for CVD composite outcomes. Increasing age being associated with greater RR reductions was the only consistent subgroup trend we identified. Trials of patients with diabetes showed no CVD benefit and trials with diabetes subgroup analyses showed no effect modification in this group. Given the paucity of data, we can draw no conclusions about treatment benefit modification based on aspirin formulation or duration. Aspirin's CVD benefit appears to begin within the first 5 years of administration; there are limited data for longer durations. We included nine of these RCTs to examine the major GI bleeding harms, hemorrhagic stroke, and other harms associated with aspirin use. Major GI bleeding was reported variably in the nine trials, with RRs ranging from 0.50 to 8.10. An individual participant data meta-analysis reported a 50 percent increase in major GI bleeding and other extracranial bleeding (RR, 1.54 [95% CI, 1.30 to 1.82]) with aspirin use compared to controls. Seven trials reported hemorrhagic stroke as rare events (</=5% incidence) in both aspirin and control groups, making the numbers too unstable to precisely estimate the effect of aspirin on this harm. Two RCTs found no statistically significant difference in age-related macular degeneration in the aspirin group compared to controls. Both trials showed RRs of less than 1. CONCLUSIONS: In primary prevention populations, aspirin modestly reduces nonfatal MI/coronary events and major CVD events, but also increases major GI bleeding risk. More precise real-world estimates for bleeding events, including major GI bleeding events and hemorrhagic stroke, are necessary to calculate the net benefit. At some absolute risk for 10-year CVD events, this absolute CVD benefit could potentially outweigh the bleeding risks. Models to identify these populations are needed.

Guo, T., et al. (2017). "Acupuncture for Children with Cerebral Palsy: A Systematic Review Protocol." JMIR Res Protoc 6(1): e2.
	BACKGROUND: Cerebral palsy (CP), a childhood disease of high morbidity and serious harmfulness, has no effective therapies to completely relieve the associated pain. Acupuncture has been used widely in China to alleviate several CP symptoms, such as pain and motion disorders, despite the deficiency of high-quality evidence related to this practice. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this systematic review protocol is to assess the efficacy and safety of acupuncture for the treatment of children with CP. METHODS: The following electronic databases will be searched: Cochrane Library, Web of Science, EBASE, Springer, World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Wan-fang database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, Chinese Scientific Journal Database, and other sources. All published randomized controlled trials from inception to December 2016 will be included. RevMan V.5.3 software will be implemented for the assessment of bias risk, data synthesis, subgroup analysis, and meta-analyses if inclusion conditions are met. Individuals recruited into the trials will include children with all types of CP, and these individuals will be involved as coresearchers to develop and evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupuncture for the treatment of children with CP. Due to language barriers, only English and Chinese articles will be retrieved. RESULTS: The systematic review will synthesize the available knowledge surrounding acupuncture for children with CP. The findings will be synthesized to determine the efficacy and safety of acupuncture for children with CP. CONCLUSIONS: The review has not been completed. This protocol presents a proper method to implement the systematic review, and ensures transparency for the completed review. Findings from the systematic review will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed journal and results will be presented at relevant conferences. The data of individual patients will not be included, so ethical approval is not required. TRIAL REGISTRATION: PROSPERO registration number: CRD42016038275, http://www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO/display_record.asp?ID=CRD42016038275 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation/6nGxoJrqm.

Hadji, P., et al. (2017). "Management of Aromatase Inhibitor-Associated Bone Loss (AIBL) in postmenopausal women with hormone sensitive breast cancer: Joint position statement of the IOF, CABS, ECTS, IEG, ESCEO IMS, and SIOG." J Bone Oncol 7: 1-12.
	BACKGROUND: Several guidelines have been reported for bone-directed treatment in women with early breast cancer (EBC) for averting fractures, particularly during aromatase inhibitor (AI) therapy. Recently, a number of studies on additional fracture related risk factors, new treatment options as well as real world studies demonstrating a much higher fracture rate than suggested by randomized clinical controlled trials (RCTs). Therefore, this updated algorithm was developed to better assess fracture risk and direct treatment as a position statement of several interdisciplinary cancer and bone societies involved in the management of AI-associated bone loss (AIBL). PATIENTS AND METHODS: A systematic literature review identified recent advances in the management of AIBL. Results with individual agents were assessed based on trial design, size, follow-up, and safety. RESULTS: Several fracture related risk factors in patients with EBC were identified. Although, the FRAX algorithm includes fracture risk factors (RF) in addition to BMD, it does not seem to adequately address the effects of AIBL. Several antiresorptive agents can prevent and treat AIBL. However, concerns regarding compliance and long-term safety remain. Overall, the evidence for fracture prevention is strongest for denosumab 60 mg s.c. every 6 months. Additionally, recent studies as well as an individual patient data meta-analysis of all available randomized trial data support additional anticancer benefits from adjuvant bisphosphonate treatment in postmenopausal women with a 34% relative risk reduction in bone metastasis and 17% relative risk decrease in breast cancer mortality that needs to be taken into account when advising on management of AIBL. CONCLUSIONS: In all patients initiating AI treatment, fracture risk should be assessed and recommendation with regard to exercise and calcium/vitamin D supplementation given. Bone-directed therapy should be given to all patients with a T-score<-2.0 or with a T-score of <-1.5 SD with one additional RF, or with >/=2 risk factors (without BMD) for the duration of AI treatment. Patients with T-score>-1.5 SD and no risk factors should be managed based on BMD loss during the first year and the local guidelines for postmenopausal osteoporosis. Compliance should be regularly assessed as well as BMD on treatment after 12 - 24 months. Furthermore, because of the decreased incidence of bone recurrence and breast cancer specific mortality, adjuvant bisphosphonates are recommended for all postmenopausal women at significant risk of disease recurrence.

Hall, T. S., et al. (2018). "Relationship between left ventricular ejection fraction and mortality after myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure or left ventricular dysfunction." Int J Cardiol 272: 260-266.
	BACKGROUND: Identifying risk factors for specific modes of death in patients with heart failure (HF) or left ventricular (LV) dysfunction after acute myocardial infarction (MI) may help to avert events. We sought to evaluate LV ejection fraction (LVEF) as a prognosticator of specific death modes. METHODS AND RESULTS: In an individual patient data meta-analysis of four merged trials (CAPRICORN, EPHESUS, OPTIMAAL, and VALIANT), Cox modelling was performed to study the association between baseline LVEF from 19,740 patients and types of death during follow-up. Over a median follow-up of 707days 3419 deaths occurred. The distribution pattern for mode of death was similar across categories (LVEF<25%, LVEF 25-35%, and LVEF>35%). In multivariable models, the risk of all types of death increased with decreasing LVEF. If compared to LVEF>35%, LVEF<25% was associated with a 113% increased risk of sudden death (hazard ratio (HR) 2.13, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.53-2.98), a 170% increased risk of HF death (HR 2.70, 95% CI 1.83-3.98), a 66% increased risk of other cardiovascular (CV) death (HR 1.66, 95% CI 1.14-2.42), and a 90% increased risk of non CV death (HR 1.90, 95% CI 1.15-3.14). CONCLUSION: In patients with HF or LV dysfunction after acute MI, low LVEF is a ubiquitous risk marker associated with death regardless of type. The different modes of death are fairly equally represented throughout the categories of LVEF and sudden death remains a significant mode of death also in patients with LVEF>35%.

Hall, T. S., et al. (2019). "Left ventricular ejection fraction and adjudicated, cause-specific hospitalizations after myocardial infarction complicated by heart failure or left ventricular dysfunction." Am Heart J 215: 83-90.
	BACKGROUND: Reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) after acute myocardial infarction (MI) increases risk of cardiovascular (CV) hospitalizations, but evidence regarding its association with non-CV outcome is scarce. We investigated the association between LVEF and adjudicated cause-specific hospitalizations following MI complicated with low LVEF or overt heart failure (HF). METHODS: In an individual patient data meta-analysis of 19,740 patients from 3 large randomized trials, Fine and Gray competing risk modeling was performed to study the association between LVEF and hospitalization types. RESULTS: The most common cause of hospitalization was non-CV (n=2,368 for HF, n=1,554 for MI, and n=3,703 for non-CV). All types of hospitalizations significantly increased with decreasing LVEF. The absolute risk increase associated with LVEF <<25% (vs LVEF >>35%) was 15.5% (95% CI 13.4-17.5) for HF, 4.7% (95% CI 3.0-6.4) for MI, and 10.4% (95% CI 8.0-12.8) for non-CV hospitalization. On a relative scale, after adjusting for confounders, each 5-point decrease in LVEF was associated with an increased risk of HF (hazard ratio [HR] 1.15, 95% CI 1.12-1.18), MI (HR 1.06, 95% CI 1.03-1.10), and non-CV hospitalization (HR 1.03, 95% CI 1.01-1.05). CONCLUSIONS: In a high-risk population with complicated acute MI, the absolute risk increase in non-CV hospitalizations associated with LVEF <<25% was two thirds of the absolute risk increase in HF hospitalizations and twice the absolute risk increase in MI hospitalizations. LVEF was an independent predictor of all types of hospitalization and appears as an integrative marker of sicker patient status.

Hamada, C., et al. (2016). "Meta-analysis supporting noninferiority of oxaliplatin plus S-1 to cisplatin plus S-1 in first-line treatment of advanced gastric cancer (G-SOX study): indirect comparison with S-1 alone." Int J Clin Oncol 21(4): 668-675.
	BACKGROUND: The Randomized Phase III Study Comparing Oxaliplatin plus S-1 with Cisplatin plus S-1 in Chemotherapy-naive Patients with Advanced Gastric Cancer (G-SOX) showed the noninferiority of S-1 (an oral fluoropyrimidine-derivative dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase inhibitor) plus oxaliplatin combination therapy (SOX) to S-1 plus cisplatin therapy (CS) in overall survival [hazard ratio (HR) from proportional hazard model 0.958, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.803-1.142; noninferiority margin 1.15]. To further clarify the clinical position of SOX in advanced gastric cancer (AGC), a meta-analysis including information from other reported studies was conducted. METHODS: In addition to G-SOX, Japanese phase III clinical trials including S-1 monotherapy were included in the analyses. Individual patient data for SOX (318 patients) and CS (324 patients) from G-SOX, as well as those for S-1 (160 patients) from the Randomized Phase III Study Comparing the Efficacy and Safety of Irinotecan plus S-1 with S-1 Alone as First-line Treatment for Advanced Gastric Cancer (GC0301/TOP-002), were available. Published clinical information for S-1 from other studies (total 705 patients) was also collected. A Weibull distribution was assumed for overall survival time, and parameters for SOX, CS, and S-1 were estimated parametrically. Posterior HR distributions were obtained with a Bayesian approach. RESULTS: The HR of SOX to S-1 was 0.817 (95 % credible interval 0.704-0.939), and the probability of the HR <1.00 was 99.8 %. The HR of CS to S-1 was 0.871 (95 % credible interval; 0.754-0.998), and the probability of the HR <1.00 was 97.6 %. The HR of SOX to CS in G-SOX was 0.942 (95 % credible interval; 0.789-1.117), and the probability of HR <1.15 was 98.9 %. CONCLUSION: This meta-analysis indicates that SOX was superior to S-1 and noninferior to CS in AGC.

Han, L., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of carboplatin plus S-1 for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer: A protocol for a systematic review of randomized controlled trial." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(14): e15099.
	BACKGROUND: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common lung cancer. Numerous clinical studies have reported that the combination of carboplatin and S-1 (CS) can be used to treat NSCLC effectively. However, no systematic review has been conducted to assess its efficacy and safety for NSCLC. This systematic review aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of CS for treatment of patients with NSCLC. METHODS: This study will retrieve the following electronic databases from inception to the February 1, 2019: Cochrane Library, EMBASE, MEDILINE, CINAHL, AMED, and 4 Chinese databases without any language limitations. This systematic review will include randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and case-control studies for assessing the efficacy and safety of CS for the treatment of NSCLC. Cochrane risk of bias will be used as methodological quality assessment for each qualified study. The RevMan V.5.3 software will be utilized to synthesize the data and conduct the meta-analysis if it is allowed. The data will be pooled by using the random-effects model or fixed-effects model. RESULTS: The primary outcome is overall response rate. The secondary outcomes are overall survival, progression-free survival, the disease control rate, and any adverse events. CONCLUSION: It will provide latest evidence to determine the efficacy and safety of CS for treatment of patients with NSCLC. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: No research ethic approval is needed in this study because this study will not analyze individual patient data. The results are expected to disseminate through peer-reviewed journals. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42019124860.

Hannerz, H., et al. (2018). "Long working hours and stroke among employees in the general workforce of Denmark." Scand J Public Health 46(3): 368-374.
	AIMS: A systematic review and meta-analysis have found that long working hours were prospectively associated with an increased risk of overall stroke. The primary aim of the present study was to test if this finding could be reproduced in a sample that has been randomly selected from the general workforce of Denmark. A secondary aim was to estimate the association for haemorrhagic and ischaemic stroke separately. METHODS: Individual participant data on 20- to 64-year-old employees were drawn from the Danish Labour Force Survey, 1999-2013, and linked to data on socio-economic status (SES), migrations, hospitalisations and deaths from national registers. The participants were followed from the time of the interview until the end of 2014. Poisson regression was used to estimate age-, sex- and SES-adjusted rate ratios for stroke as a function of weekly working hours. RESULTS: With 35-40 working hours per week as reference, the estimated rate ratios for overall stroke were 0.97 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.83-1.13) for 41-48 working hours, 1.10 (95% CI 0.86-1.39) for 49-54 working hours and 0.89 (95% CI 0.69-1.16) for >/=55 working hours. The estimated rate ratios per one category increase in working hours were 0.99 (95% CI 0.93-1.06) for overall stroke, 0.96 (95% CI 0.88-1.05) for ischaemic stroke and 1.15 (95% CI 1.02-1.31) for haemorrhagic stroke. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis does not support the hypothesis that long working hours are associated with increased rates of overall stroke. It suggests, however, that long working hours might be associated with increased rates of haemorrhagic stroke.

Hartmann, K. E., et al. (2017). AHRQ Comparative Effectiveness Reviews. Management of Uterine Fibroids. Rockville (MD), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US).
	OBJECTIVES: We assessed the evidence about management of uterine fibroids. Specifically, we sought to determine effectiveness of interventions, risks of harm, and whether individual or fibroid characteristics influence outcomes. DATA SOURCES: We searched MEDLINE(R) via PubMed(R) and Embase(R) to identify publications, as well as reviewed the reference lists of included studies. METHODS: We included studies published in English from January 1985 to September 2016. We identified randomized clinical trials to assess outcomes and harms of interventions. We used data from trials in a meta-analysis to estimate probability and timing of subsequent interventions for fibroids based on initial type of intervention. To describe risk of unrecognized leiomyosarcoma, we included studies that allowed calculation of prevalence of leiomyosarcoma discovered at the time of surgery for masses believed to be fibroids. We also identified publications that indicated operative approaches to removal of leiomyosarcoma tissue and built models to estimate survival. We extracted data, assessed risk of bias, and rated the strength of evidence for informing care. RESULTS: Of 97 included randomized trials, 43 studies assessed medications, 28 assessed procedures, and 37 assessed surgeries. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists, mifepristone, and ulipristal reduced fibroid size and improved fibroid-related symptoms, including bleeding and quality of life (moderate strength of evidence [SOE] except quality of life for GnRH agonist [low SOE]). Several other medications have promise but are not supported by sufficient evidence. Uterine artery embolization (UAE) (high SOE) as well as high intensity focused ultrasound (low SOE) are effective for decreasing fibroid size/volume. Few other outcomes are well investigated for high intensity focused ultrasound. UAE studies reported improved outcomes for bleeding (moderate SOE), and quality of life (moderate SOE). Myomectomy and hysterectomy improved q uality of life (both low SOE). Few well-conducted trials directly compared different treatment options. No studies were designed to evaluate expectant management, and evidence is insufficient to guide clinical care. Subsequent intervention ranged from 0 to 44 percent in studies that followed women after initial fibroid treatment. At 2-year followup, subsequent intervention rates were lowest for initial medical management and higher for UAE and myomectomy, especially among younger women. No individual characteristics of women or their fibroids were definitely associated with likelihood of intervention benefits or patient satisfaction. These findings were limited by the number and size of available studies. Using data from 160 studies, we estimated that among 10,000 women having surgery for presumed fibroids, between 0 and 13 will have a leiomyosarcoma detected. Of the surgical approaches, the 5-year survival after leiomyosarcoma diagnosis was 30 percent with power morcellation (95% Bayesian credible interval [BCI]: 13% to 61%), 59 percent with scalpel morcellation (BCI: 33% to 84%), and 60 percent with intact removal (BCI: 24% to 98%). CONCLUSION: A range of interventions are effective for reducing fibroid size and improving symptoms. Some medications and procedures also improve quality of life. Few studies directly compare interventions. The risk of encountering a leiomyosarcoma at the time of fibroid surgery is low, and the method of fibroid removal may influence survival. Evidence to guide choice of intervention is likely best when applied in the context of individual patient needs and preferences.

Hawkins, N., et al. (2016). "'Arm-based' parameterization for network meta-analysis." Res Synth Methods 7(3): 306-313.
	We present an alternative to the contrast-based parameterization used in a number of publications for network meta-analysis. This alternative "arm-based" parameterization offers a number of advantages: it allows for a "long" normalized data structure that remains constant regardless of the number of comparators; it can be used to directly incorporate individual patient data into the analysis; the incorporation of multi-arm trials is straightforward and avoids the need to generate a multivariate distribution describing treatment effects; there is a direct mapping between the parameterization and the analysis script in languages such as WinBUGS and finally, the arm-based parameterization allows simple extension to treatment-specific random treatment effect variances. We validated the parameterization using a published smoking cessation dataset. Network meta-analysis using arm- and contrast-based parameterizations produced comparable results (with means and standard deviations being within +/- 0.01) for both fixed and random effects models. We recommend that analysts consider using arm-based parameterization when carrying out network meta-analyses. (c) 2015 The Authors Research Synthesis Methods Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Hee, S. W., et al. (2017). "Development of a repository of individual participant data from randomized controlled trials of therapists delivered interventions for low back pain." Eur J Pain 21(5): 815-826.
	BACKGROUND: Individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis of existing randomized controlled trials (RCTs) is a promising approach to achieving sufficient statistical power to identify sub-groups. We created a repository of IPD from multiple low back pain (LBP) RCTs to facilitate a study of treatment moderators. Due to sparse heterogeneous data, the repository needed to be robust and flexible to accommodate millions of data points prior to any subsequent analysis. METHODS: We systematically identified RCTs of therapist delivered intervention for inclusion to the repository. Some were obtained through project publicity. We requested both individual items and aggregate scores of all baseline characteristics and outcomes for all available time points. The repository is made up of a hybrid database: entity-attribute-value and relational database which is capable of storing sparse heterogeneous datasets. We developed a bespoke software program to extract, transform and upload the shared data. RESULTS: There were 20 datasets with more than 3 million data points from 9328 participants. All trials collected covariates and outcomes data at baseline and follow-ups. The bespoke standardized repository is flexible to accommodate millions of data points without compromising data integrity. Data are easily retrieved for analysis using standard statistical programs. CONCLUSIONS: The bespoke hybrid repository is complex to implement and to query but its flexibility in supporting datasets with varying sets of responses and outcomes with different data types is a worthy trade off. The large standardized LBP dataset is also an important resource useable by other LBP researchers. SIGNIFICANCE: A flexible adaptive database for pain studies that can easily be expanded for future researchers to map, transform and upload their data in a safe and secure environment. The data are standardized and harmonized which will facilitate future requests from other researchers for secondary analyses.

Hefler, M., et al. (2017). "Incentives for preventing smoking in children and adolescents." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 6: Cd008645.
	BACKGROUND: Adult smoking usually has its roots in adolescence. If individuals do not take up smoking during this period it is unlikely that they ever will. Further, once smoking becomes established, cessation is challenging; the probability of subsequently quitting is inversely proportional to the age of initiation. One novel approach to reducing the prevalence of youth smoking is the use of incentives. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effect of incentives on preventing children and adolescents (aged 5 to 18 years) from starting to smoke. It was also our intention to assess, where possible, the dose-response of incentives, the costs of incentive programmes, whether incentives are more or less effective in combination with other interventions to prevent smoking initiation, and any unintended consequences arising from the use of incentives. SEARCH METHODS: For the original review (published 2012) we searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialized Register, with additional searches of MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, CSA databases and PsycINFO for terms relating to incentives, in combination with terms for smoking and tobacco use, and children and adolescents. The most recent searches were of the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialized Register, and were carried out in December 2016. SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered randomized controlled trials (RCTs) allocating children and adolescents (aged 5 to 18 years) as individuals, groups or communities to intervention or control conditions, where the intervention included an incentive aimed at preventing smoking uptake. We also considered controlled trials (CTs) with baseline measures and post-intervention outcomes. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors extracted and independently assessed the data. The primary outcome was the smoking status of children or adolescents at follow-up who reported no smoking at baseline. We required a minimum follow-up of six months from baseline and assessed each included study for risks of bias. We used the most rigorous definition of abstinence in each trial; we did not require biochemical validation of self-reported tobacco use for study inclusion. Where possible we combined eligible studies to calculate pooled estimates at the longest follow-up, using the Mantel-Haenszel fixed-effect method, grouping studies by study design. MAIN RESULTS: We identified three eligible RCTs and five CTs, including participants aged 11 to 14 years, who were non-smokers at baseline. Of the eight trials identified, six had analyzable data relevant for this review, which contributed to meta-analyses (7275 participants in total: 4003 intervention; 3272 control; 2484 participants after adjusting for clustering). All except one of the studies tested the 'Smokefree Class Competition' (SFC), which has been widely implemented throughout Europe. In this competition, classes with youth generally between the ages of 11 and 14 years commit to being smoke-free for a six-month period, and report their smoking status regularly. If 90% or more of the class are non-smokers at the end of the six months, the class goes into a competition to win prizes. The one study that was not a trial of the SFC was a controlled trial in which schools in two communities were assigned to the intervention, with schools in a third community acting as controls. Students in the intervention community with lower smoking rates at the end of the project (one school year) received rewards.Most studies resulted in statistically non-significant results. Only one study of the SFC reported a significant effect of the competition on the prevention of smoking at the longest follow-up. However, this study was at risk of multiple biases, and when we calculated the adjusted risk ratio (RR) we no longer detected a statistically significant difference. The pooled RR for the more robust RCTs (3 studies, n = 3056 participants/1107 adjusted for clustering) suggests that there is no statistically significant effect of incentives, in the form of the SFC, to prevent smoking initiation among children and adolescents in the long term (RR 1.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.84 to 1.19). Pooled results from the non-randomized trials also did not detect a significant effect of the SFC, and we were unable to extract data on our outcome of interest from the one trial that did not study the SFC. There is little robust evidence to suggest that unintended consequences (such as making false claims about their smoking status and bullying of smoking students) are consistently associated with such interventions, although this has not been the focus of much research. There was insufficient information to assess the dose-response relationship or to report costs of incentives for preventing smoking uptake.We judged the included RCTs to be at unclear risk of bias, and the non-RCTs to be at high risk of bias. Using GRADE, we rated the overall quality of the evidence for our primary outcome as 'low' (for RCTs) and 'very low' (for non-RCTs), because of imprecision (all studies had wide confidence intervals), and for the risks of bias identified. We further downgraded the non-RCT evidence, due to issues with the non-RCT study design, likely to introduce further bias. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The very limited evidence currently available suggests that incentive programmes do not prevent smoking initiation among youth. However, there are relatively few published studies and these are of variable quality. In addition, trials included in the meta-analyses were all studies of the SFC, which distributed small to moderately-sized prizes to whole classes, usually through a lottery system. It is therefore possible that other incentive programmes could be more successful at preventing smoking uptake in young people.Future studies might investigate the efficacy of a wider range of incentives, including those given to individual participants to prevent smoking uptake, whilst considering both the effect of incentives on smoking initiation and the progression to smoking. It would be useful if incentives were evaluated in varying populations from different socioeconomic and ethnic backgrounds, and if intervention components were described in detail.

Hemila, H. (2017). "Duration of the common cold and similar continuous outcomes should be analyzed on the relative scale: a case study of two zinc lozenge trials." BMC Med Res Methodol 17(1): 82.
	BACKGROUND: The relative scale has been used for decades in analysing binary data in epidemiology. In contrast, there has been a long tradition of carrying out meta-analyses of continuous outcomes on the absolute, original measurement, scale. The biological rationale for using the relative scale in the analysis of binary outcomes is that it adjusts for baseline variations; however, similar baseline variations can occur in continuous outcomes and relative effect scale may therefore be often useful also for continuous outcomes. The aim of this study was to determine whether the relative scale is more consistent with empirical data on treating the common cold than the absolute scale. METHODS: Individual patient data was available for 2 randomized trials on zinc lozenges for the treatment of the common cold. Mossad (Ann Intern Med 125:81-8, 1996) found 4.0 days and 43% reduction, and Petrus (Curr Ther Res 59:595-607, 1998) found 1.77 days and 25% reduction, in the duration of colds. In both trials, variance in the placebo group was significantly greater than in the zinc lozenge group. The effect estimates were applied to the common cold distributions of the placebo groups, and the resulting distributions were compared with the actual zinc lozenge group distributions. RESULTS: When the absolute effect estimates, 4.0 and 1.77 days, were applied to the placebo group common cold distributions, negative and zero (i.e., impossible) cold durations were predicted, and the high level variance remained. In contrast, when the relative effect estimates, 43 and 25%, were applied, impossible common cold durations were not predicted in the placebo groups, and the cold distributions became similar to those of the zinc lozenge groups. CONCLUSIONS: For some continuous outcomes, such as the duration of illness and the duration of hospital stay, the relative scale leads to a more informative statistical analysis and more effective communication of the study findings. The transformation of continuous data to the relative scale is simple with a spreadsheet program, after which the relative scale data can be analysed using standard meta-analysis software. The option for the analysis of relative effects of continuous outcomes directly from the original data should be implemented in standard meta-analysis programs.

Hemila, H. and J. O. Friedrich (2019). "Many continuous variables should be analyzed using the relative scale: a case study of beta2-agonists for preventing exercise-induced bronchoconstriction." Syst Rev 8(1): 282.
	BACKGROUND: The relative scale adjusts for baseline variability and therefore may lead to findings that can be generalized more widely. It is routinely used for the analysis of binary outcomes but only rarely for continuous outcomes. Our objective was to compare relative vs absolute scale pooled outcomes using data from a recently published Cochrane systematic review that reported only absolute effects of inhaled beta2-agonists on exercise-induced decline in forced-expiratory volumes in 1 s (FEV1). METHODS: From the Cochrane review, we selected placebo-controlled cross-over studies that reported individual participant data (IPD). Reversal in FEV1 decline after exercise was modeled as a mean uniform percentage point (pp) change (absolute effect) or average percent change (relative effect) using either intercept-only or slope-only, respectively, linear mixed-effect models. We also calculated the pooled relative effect estimates using standard random-effects, inverse-variance-weighting meta-analysis using study-level mean effects. RESULTS: Fourteen studies with 187 participants were identified for the IPD analysis. On the absolute scale, beta2-agonists decreased the exercise-induced FEV1 decline by 28 pp., and on the relative scale, they decreased the FEV1 decline by 90%. The fit of the statistical model was significantly better with the relative 90% estimate compared with the absolute 28 pp. estimate. Furthermore, the median residuals (5.8 vs. 10.8 pp) were substantially smaller in the relative effect model than in the absolute effect model. Using standard study-level meta-analysis of the same 14 studies, beta2-agonists reduced exercise-induced FEV1 decline on the relative scale by a similar amount: 83% or 90%, depending on the method of calculating the relative effect. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the absolute scale, the relative scale captures more effectively the variation in the effects of beta2-agonists on exercise-induced FEV1-declines. The absolute scale has been used in the analysis of FEV1 changes and may have led to sub-optimal statistical analysis in some cases. The choice between the absolute and relative scale should be determined based on biological reasoning and empirical testing to identify the scale that leads to lower heterogeneity.

Hennissen, L., et al. (2017). "Cardiovascular Effects of Stimulant and Non-Stimulant Medication for Children and Adolescents with ADHD: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Trials of Methylphenidate, Amphetamines and Atomoxetine." CNS Drugs 31(3): 199-215.
	BACKGROUND: Many children and adolescents with attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) are treated with stimulant and non-stimulant medication. ADHD medication may be associated with cardiovascular effects. It is important to identify whether mean group effects translate into clinically relevant increases for some individual patients, and/or increase the risk for serious cardiovascular adverse events such as stroke or sudden death. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate potential cardiovascular effects of these treatments, we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of the effects of methylphenidate (MPH), amphetamines (AMP), and atomoxetine (ATX) on diastolic and systolic blood pressure (DBP, SBP) and heart rate (HR) in children and adolescents with ADHD. METHODS: We conducted systematic searches in electronic databases (PsychINFO, EMBASE and Medline) to identify published trials which involved individuals who were (i) diagnosed with ADHD and were aged between 0-18 years; (ii) treated with MPH, AMP or ATX and (iii) had their DBP and SBP and/or HR measured at baseline (pre) and the endpoint (post) of the study treatment. Studies with an open-label design or a double-blind randomised control design of any duration were included. Statistical analysis involved calculating differences between pre- and post-treatment measurements for the various cardiovascular parameters divided by the pooled standard deviation. Further, we assessed the percentage of clinically relevant increased BP or HR, or documented arrhythmias. RESULTS: Eighteen clinical trials met the inclusion criteria (10 for MPH, 5 for AMP, and 7 for ATX) with data from 5837 participants (80.7% boys) and average duration of 28.7 weeks (range 4-96 weeks). All three medications were associated with a small, but statistically significant pre-post increase of SBP (MPH: standard mean difference [SMD] 0.25, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.08-0.42, p < 0.01; AMP: SMD 0.09, 95% CI 0.03-0.15, p < 0.01; ATX: SMD 0.16, 95% CI 0.04-0.27, p = 0.01). MPH did not have a pre-post effect on DBP and HR. AMP treatment was associated with a small but statistically significant pre-post increase of DBP (SMD 0.16, CI 0.03-0.29, p = 0.02), as was ATX treatment (SMD 0.22, CI 0.10-0.34, p < 0.01). AMP and ATX were associated with a small to medium statistically significant pre-post increase of HR (AMP: SMD 0.37, CI 0.13-0.60, p < 0.01; ATX: SMD 0.43, CI 0.26-0.60, p < 0.01). The head-to-head comparison of the three medications did not reveal significant differences. Sensitivity analyses revealed that AMP studies of <18 weeks reported higher effect sizes on DBP compared with longer duration studies (F(1) = 19.55, p = 0.05). Further, MPH studies published before 2007 reported higher effect sizes on SBP than studies after 2007 (F(1) = 5.346, p = 0.05). There was no effect of the following moderators: type of medication, doses, sample size, age, gender, type of ADHD, comorbidity or dropout rate. Participants on medication reported 737 (12.6%) other cardiovascular effects. Notably, 2% of patients discontinued their medication treatment due to any cardiovascular effect. However, in the majority of patients, the cardiovascular effects resolved spontaneously, medication doses were changed or the effects were not considered clinically relevant. There were no statistically significant differences between the medication treatments in terms of the severity of cardiovascular effects. CONCLUSIONS: Statistically significant pre-post increases of SBP, DBP and HR were associated with AMP and ATX treatment in children and adolescents with ADHD, while MPH treatment had a statistically significant effect only on SBP in these patients. These increases may be clinically significant for a significant minority of individuals that experience larger increases. Since increased BP and HR in general are considered risk factors for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality during adult life, paediatric patients using ADHD medication should be monitored closely and regularly for HR and BP.

Herath, S. C., et al. (2018). "Prophylactic antibiotic therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 10: Cd009764.
	BACKGROUND: There has been renewal of interest in the use of prophylactic antibiotics to reduce the frequency of exacerbations and improve quality of life in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). OBJECTIVES: To determine whether or not regular (continuous, intermittent or pulsed) treatment of COPD patients with prophylactic antibiotics reduces exacerbations or affects quality of life. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Trials Register and bibliographies of relevant studies. The latest literature search was performed on 27 July 2018. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared prophylactic antibiotics with placebo in patients with COPD. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We used the standard Cochrane methods. Two independent review authors selected studies for inclusion, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. We resolved discrepancies by involving a third review author. MAIN RESULTS: We included 14 studies involving 3932 participants in this review. We identified two further studies meeting inclusion criteria but both were terminated early without providing results. All studies were published between 2001 and 2015. Nine studies were of continuous macrolide antibiotics, two studies were of intermittent antibiotic prophylaxis (three times per week) and two were of pulsed antibiotic regimens (e.g. five days every eight weeks). The final study included one continuous, one intermittent and one pulsed arm. The antibiotics investigated were azithromycin, erythromycin, clarithromycin, doxycyline, roxithromycin and moxifloxacin. The study duration varied from three months to 36 months and all used intention-to-treat analysis. Most of the pooled results were of moderate quality. The risk of bias of the included studies was generally low.The studies recruited participants with a mean age between 65 and 72 years and mostly at least moderate-severity COPD. Five studies only included participants with frequent exacerbations and two studies recruited participants requiring systemic steroids or antibiotics or both, or who were at the end stage of their disease and required oxygen. One study recruited participants with pulmonary hypertension secondary to COPD and a further study was specifically designed to asses whether eradication of Chlamydia pneumoniae reduced exacerbation rates.The co-primary outcomes for this review were the number of exacerbations and quality of life.With use of prophylactic antibiotics, the number of participants experiencing one or more exacerbations was reduced (odds ratio (OR) 0.57, 95% CI 0.42 to 0.78; participants = 2716; studies = 8; moderate-quality evidence). This represented a reduction from 61% of participants in the control group compared to 47% in the treatment group (95% CI 39% to 55%). The number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome with prophylactic antibiotics given for three to 12 months to prevent one person from experiencing an exacerbation (NNTB) was 8 (95% CI 5 to 17). The test for subgroup difference suggested that continuous and intermittent antibiotics may be more effective than pulsed antibiotics (P = 0.02, I(2) = 73.3%).The frequency of exacerbations per patient per year was also reduced with prophylactic antibiotic treatment (rate ratio 0.67; 95% CI 0.54 to 0.83; participants = 1384; studies = 5; moderate-quality evidence). Although we were unable to pool the result, six of the seven studies reporting time to first exacerbation identified an increase (i.e. benefit) with antibiotics, which was reported as statistically significant in four studies.There was a statistically significant improvement in quality of life as measured by the St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) with prophylactic antibiotic treatment, but this was smaller than the four unit improvement that is regarded as being clinically significant (mean difference (MD) -1.94, 95% CI -3.13 to -0.75; participants = 2237; studies = 7, high-quality evidence).Prophylactic antibiotics showed no significant effect on the secondary outcomes of frequency of hospital admissions, change in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1), serious adverse events or all-cause mortality (moderate-quality evidence). There was some evidence of benefit in exercise tolerance, but this was driven by a single study of lower methodological quality.The adverse events that were recorded varied among the studies depending on the antibiotics used. Azithromycin was associated with significant hearing loss in the treatment group, which was in many cases reversible or partially reversible. The moxifloxacin pulsed study reported a significantly higher number of adverse events in the treatment arm due to the marked increase in gastrointestinal adverse events (P < 0.001). Some adverse events that led to drug discontinuation, such as development of long QTc or tinnitus, were not significantly more frequent in the treatment group than the placebo group but pose important considerations in clinical practice.The development of antibiotic resistance in the community is of major concern. Six studies reported on this, but we were unable to combine results. One study found newly colonised participants to have higher rates of antibiotic resistance. Participants colonised with moxifloxacin-sensitive pseudomonas at initiation of therapy rapidly became resistant with the quinolone treatment. A further study with three active treatment arms found an increase in the degree of antibiotic resistance of isolates in all three arms after 13 weeks treatment. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Use of continuous and intermittent prophylactic antibiotics results in a clinically significant benefit in reducing exacerbations in COPD patients. All studies of continuous and intermittent antibiotics used macrolides, hence the noted benefit applies only to the use of macrolide antibiotics prescribed at least three times per week. The impact of pulsed antibiotics remains uncertain and requires further research.The studies in this review included mostly participants who were frequent exacerbators with at least moderate-severity COPD. There were also older individuals with a mean age over 65 years. The results of these studies apply only to the group of participants who were studied in these studies and may not be generalisable to other groups.Because of concerns about antibiotic resistance and specific adverse effects, consideration of prophylactic antibiotic use should be mindful of the balance between benefits to individual patients and the potential harms to society created by antibiotic overuse. Monitoring of significant side effects including hearing loss, tinnitus, and long QTc in the community in this elderly patient group may require extra health resources.

Higgs, M. and R. Fernandez (2015). "The effect of insulin therapy algorithms on blood glucose levels in patients following cardiac surgery: A systematic review." JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep 13(5): 205-243.
	BACKGROUND: A number of insulin infusion algorithms, with varying methods and effects, have been developed to guide the management of postoperative hyperglycemia in critically ill patients. OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of insulin therapy algorithms on blood glucose levels in patients in critical care environments following cardiac surgery. INCLUSION CRITERIA: Types of participants: Adult patients aged 18 or older who were admitted to a critical care environment after cardiac surgery and who received insulin therapy for glycemic control during the acute postoperative phase of their admission. Types of intervention: The intervention of interest was continuous intravenous insulin therapy. Types of studies: Experimental study designs including randomized controlled trials, non-randomized controlled trials and controlled before and after studies published in the English language were included in this review. Types of outcomes: Primary outcomes of interest included objective measures of glycemic control and secondary outcomes of interest included the incidence of adverse events. SEARCH STRATEGY: The search aimed to find both published and unpublished studies through electronic databases, reference lists, key reports and the World Wide Web. An extensive search was undertaken for the following databases: Medline, CINAHL, PubMed, Embase, Scopus, the Cochrane Library, Dare, Social Science Index, ProQuest, and MedNar. Databases were searched up to March 2014. METHODOLOGICAL QUALITY: All studies selected were assessed by two reviewers independently for methodological quality prior to inclusion in the review using the standardized Joanna Briggs Institute Meta-Analysis of Statistics Assessment and Review Instrument critical appraisal tool. Any disagreements that arose between the reviewers were resolved through discussion. DATA COLLECTION: Quantitative data was extracted from papers included in the review using the standardized data extraction tool from Joanna Briggs Institute Meta-Analysis of Statistics Assessment and Review Instrument. All results were subject to double data entry. DATA SYNTHESIS: Statistical pooling of the data in meta-analysis was carried out using Review Manager meta-analysis software where possible. Odds Ratios, Relative Risks, Weighted Means Differences and their 95% Confidence Interval were calculated where appropriate. Where statistical pooling was not possible due to the heterogeneity of the studies the findings are presented in narrative form including tables and figures. RESULTS: Thirteen studies were included in the final review. Pooled data demonstrated significantly improved mean blood glucose levels (Weighted Means Differences -27.24, 95% Confidence Interval: -27.77 - -26.72), p < 0.00001 and achievement of target blood glucose levels range (Relative Risks 1.43, 95% Confidence Interval: 1.18 - 1.72), p = 0.0002, among participants who received the paper nomogram continuous intravenous insulin method of glucose control compared to the bolus regime group. Studies that investigated paper nomogram directed continuous intravenous insulin compared to computer calculator directed continuous intravenous insulin demonstrated a statistically significant improved mean blood glucose levels (Weighted Means Differences -23.74, 95% Confidence Interval: -24.45 - -23.02), p <0.00001 and higher percentage of time in which glucose levels were within the target range in the computer calculator group. A significantly lower incidence (p < 0.05) of hyperglycemia was observed in the computerized calculator directed CII group (1.3 +/- 1.2%) compared to the paper nomogram CII (6.5 +/- 2%). CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence of a benefit of continuous insulin infusions for patients following cardiac surgery with the computer calculator CII method achieving optimal glycemic control. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: The implementation of a computer calculator CII algorithm allows for individualized patient treatment. However, given the limited availability of the computer based algorithm, the implementation of a paper based algorithm would be justified. IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH: Future studies to compare the methods of computer calculator directed CII to paper nomogram directed CII should be undertaken using more rigorous research designs such as randomized controlled trials with sufficiently powered sample sizes. Definitions for both hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia should be standardized.

Ho, K. Y., et al. (2018). "Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs in chronic pain: implications of new data for clinical practice." J Pain Res 11: 1937-1948.
	COX2-selective and nonselective (ns) nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are widely used for chronic pain management. There are marked differences in the risk of adverse gastrointestinal (GI) and cardiovascular (CV) events among different NSAIDs. In 2017, publication of two randomized controlled trials and an individual patient-data meta-analysis provided robust data on the relative GI and CV tolerability profiles of currently available NSAIDs. The PRECISION study showed similar CV-event rates with celecoxib vs naproxen and ibuprofen, but GI tolerability was better for celecoxib. In the CONCERN study of high-GI-risk patients, celecoxib was associated with fewer adverse GI-tract events than naproxen. The meta-analysis showed no significant difference between celecoxib and ns-NSAIDs in the rate of acute myocardial infarction, and celecoxib was the only COX2-selective NSAID with a lower risk of adverse CV and GI events vs ns-NSAIDs. These data add to the body of knowledge about the relative tolerability of different NSAIDs and were used to propose an updated treatment algorithm. The decision about whether to use an NSAID and which one should be based on a patient's risk of developing adverse GI and CV events. Lower- and upper-GI-tract events need to be considered. Celecoxib has a better lower-GI-tract tolerability profile than ns-NSAIDs plus a proton-pump inhibitor. In addition, the latest data suggest that long-term use of celecoxib 200 mg/day may be appropriate for patients at increased CV risk.

Holihan, J. L., et al. (2017). "Ventral Hernia Repair: A Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials." Surg Infect (Larchmt) 18(6): 647-658.
	BACKGROUND: From the patient's perspective, a ventral hernia (VH) can cause pain, adversely affect function, increase size, cosmetically distort the abdomen, and incarcerate/strangulate abdominal contents. The only known "cure" for a VH is surgical repair. The aim of this study was to review systematically the published randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of the surgical care of VH. METHOD: A search of the Ovid, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane databases was performed to obtain reports of RCTs on the use of mesh reinforcement in abdominal wall hernia repair. The outcomes assessed were hernia recurrence and surgical site infection (SSI). The overall quality of evidence was assessed using Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE). When feasible, based on assessment of heterogeneity, data were pooled and analyzed in a meta-analysis. RESULTS: Of the 10,349 titles screened, 25 articles (23 studies) met the search criteria. Evidence indicates that mesh reinforcement in clean cases can decrease hernia recurrence (number needed to treat = 7.9) but increase risk of SSI (number needed to harm = 27.8). Placing mesh in the sublay position (as opposed to the onlay or underlay position) may decrease the risk of hernia recurrence and SSI. CONCLUSIONS: Mesh reinforcement is recommended for all VH repairs in a clean case (high grade of evidence). Sublay mesh location may result in fewer recurrences and SSIs than onlay or inlay placement, but further study is needed to confirm this hypothesis (moderate grade of evidence).

Hollis, S., et al. (2016). "Best practice for analysis of shared clinical trial data." BMC Med Res Methodol 16 Suppl 1: 76.
	BACKGROUND: Greater transparency, including sharing of patient-level data for further research, is an increasingly important topic for organisations who sponsor, fund and conduct clinical trials. This is a major paradigm shift with the aim of maximising the value of patient-level data from clinical trials for the benefit of future patients and society. We consider the analysis of shared clinical trial data in three broad categories: (1) reanalysis - further investigation of the efficacy and safety of the randomized intervention, (2) meta-analysis, and (3) supplemental analysis for a research question that is not directly assessing the randomized intervention. DISCUSSION: In order to support appropriate interpretation and limit the risk of misleading findings, analysis of shared clinical trial data should have a pre-specified analysis plan. However, it is not generally possible to limit bias and control multiplicity to the extent that is possible in the original trial design, conduct and analysis, and this should be acknowledged and taken into account when interpreting results. We highlight a number of areas where specific considerations arise in planning, conducting, interpreting and reporting analyses of shared clinical trial data. A key issue is that that these analyses essentially share many of the limitations of any post hoc analyses beyond the original specified analyses. The use of individual patient data in meta-analysis can provide increased precision and reduce bias. Supplemental analyses are subject to many of the same issues that arise in broader epidemiological analyses. Specific discussion topics are addressed within each of these areas. Increased provision of patient-level data from industry and academic-led clinical trials for secondary research can benefit future patients and society. Responsible data sharing, including transparency of the research objectives, analysis plans and of the results will support appropriate interpretation and help to address the risk of misleading results and avoid unfounded health scares.

Holzhauer, B., et al. (2018). "Evidence synthesis from aggregate recurrent event data for clinical trial design and analysis." Stat Med 37(6): 867-882.
	Information from historical trials is important for the design, interim monitoring, analysis, and interpretation of clinical trials. Meta-analytic models can be used to synthesize the evidence from historical data, which are often only available in aggregate form. We consider evidence synthesis methods for trials with recurrent event endpoints, which are common in many therapeutic areas. Such endpoints are typically analyzed by negative binomial regression. However, the individual patient data necessary to fit such a model are usually unavailable for historical trials reported in the medical literature. We describe approaches for back-calculating model parameter estimates and their standard errors from available summary statistics with various techniques, including approximate Bayesian computation. We propose to use a quadratic approximation to the log-likelihood for each historical trial based on 2 independent terms for the log mean rate and the log of the dispersion parameter. A Bayesian hierarchical meta-analysis model then provides the posterior predictive distribution for these parameters. Simulations show this approach with back-calculated parameter estimates results in very similar inference as using parameter estimates from individual patient data as an input. We illustrate how to design and analyze a new randomized placebo-controlled exacerbation trial in severe eosinophilic asthma using data from 11 historical trials.

Honvo, G., et al. (2019). "Safety of Symptomatic Slow-Acting Drugs for Osteoarthritis: Outcomes of a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." Drugs Aging 36(Suppl 1): 65-99.
	BACKGROUND: Symptomatic slow-acting drugs for osteoarthritis (SYSADOAs) are an important drug class in the treatment armamentarium for osteoarthritis (OA). OBJECTIVE: We aimed to re-assess the safety of various SYSADOAs in a comprehensive meta-analysis of randomized placebo-controlled trials, using, as much as possible, data from full safety reports. METHODS: We performed a systematic review and random-effects meta-analyses of randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials that assessed adverse events (AEs) with various SYSADOAs in patients with OA. The databases MEDLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Ovid CENTRAL) and Scopus were searched. The primary outcomes were overall severe and serious AEs, as well as AEs involving the following Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) system organ classes (SOCs): gastrointestinal, cardiac, vascular, nervous system, skin and subcutaneous tissue, musculoskeletal and connective tissue, renal and urinary system. RESULTS: Database searches initially identified 3815 records. After exclusions according to the selection criteria, 25 studies on various SYSADOAs were included in the qualitative synthesis, and 13 studies with adequate data were included in the meta-analyses. Next, from the studies previously excluded according to the protocol, 37 with mainly oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) permitted as concomitant medication were included in a parallel qualitative synthesis, from which 18 studies on various SYSADOAs were included in parallel meta-analyses. This post hoc parallel inclusion was conducted because of the high number of studies allowing concomitant anti-OA medications. Indeed, primarily excluding studies with concomitant anti-OA medications was crucial for a meta-analysis on safety. The decision for parallel inclusion was made for the purpose of comparative analyses. Glucosamine sulfate (GS), chondroitin sulfate (CS) and avocado soybean unsaponifiables (ASU; Piascledine((R))) were not associated with increased odds for any type of AEs compared with placebo. Overall, with/without concomitant OA medication, diacerein was associated with significantly increased odds of total AEs (odds ratio [OR] 2.22; 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.58-3.13; I(2) = 52.8%), gastrointestinal disorders (OR 2.85; 95% CI 2.02-4.04; I(2) = 62.8%) and renal and urinary disorders (OR 3.42; 95% CI 2.36-4.96; I(2) = 17.0%) compared with placebo. In studies that allowed concomitant OA medications, diacerein was associated with significantly more dermatological disorders (OR 2.47; 95% CI 1.42-4.31; I(2) = 0%) and more dropouts due to AEs (OR 3.18; 95% CI 1.85-5.47; I(2) = 13.4%) than was placebo. No significant increase in serious or severe AEs was found with diacerein versus placebo. CONCLUSIONS: GS and CS can be considered safe treatments for patients with OA. All eligible studies on ASU included in our analysis used the proprietary product Piascledine((R)) and allowed other anti-OA medications; thus, the safety of ASU must be confirmed in future studies without concomitant anti-OA medications. Given the safety concerns with diacerein, its usefulness in patients with OA should be assessed, taking into account individual patient characteristics.

Horita, N., et al. (2015). "Pre-operative chemotherapy for non-small cell lung carcinoma." Transl Lung Cancer Res 4(1): 8-14.
	The roll by the cytotoxic chemotherapy and its efficacy in the treatment of non-small cell carcinoma (NSCLC) was not clearly identified until the 1980s when studies showed that cisplatin was beneficial in the treatment of NSCLC. The first randomized controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate the efficacy of post-operative (adjuvant) chemotherapy using the cisplatin regimen for resectable NSCLC was reported in 1988. Since then, an increasing number of RCTs have been carried out to evaluate post-operative chemotherapy. Pre-operative (neo-adjuvant) chemotherapy is a relatively new treatment strategy, as its name indicates. Compared with post-operative chemotherapy, fewer RCTs have been carried out to evaluate pre-operative chemotherapy. Given the inconsistency of the results from the RCTs, at least 12 meta-analyses have been published. Most of these meta-analyses reported overall survival (OS) benefit with hazard ratios (HRs) in the range of 0.81 to 0.89 in favor of pre-operative chemotherapy. An individual patient data meta-analysis by Burdett in 2014 indicates that the option of pre-operative chemotherapy + surgery is associated with better OS (HR 0.87, 95% CI, 0.78-0.96, P=0.007) and recurrence-free survival (RFS) (HR 0.85, 95% CI, 0.76-0.94, P=0.002) survival for operable NSCLC when compared with treatment with surgery alone. Although the current consensus recommends the use of post-operative chemotherapy, pre-operative chemotherapy has equivalent efficacy. Both strategies should be regarded as the first choice treatment options. Despite Burdett's comment, indication of pre-operative chemotherapy for stage IA disease should be judged carefully.

Howard, R., et al. (2016). "Baseline characteristics and treatment-emergent risk factors associated with cerebrovascular event and death with risperidone in dementia patients." Br J Psychiatry 209(5): 378-384.
	BACKGROUND: Use of antipsychotics to treat behavioural symptoms of dementia has been associated with increased risks of mortality and stroke. Little is known about individual patient characteristics that might be associated with bad or good outcomes. AIMS: We examined the risperidone clinical trial data to look for individual patient characteristics associated with these adverse outcomes. METHOD: Data from all double-blind randomised controlled trials of risperidone in dementia patients (risperidone n = 1009, placebo n = 712) were included. Associations between characteristics and outcome were analysed based on crude incidences and exposure-adjusted incidence rates, and by time-to-event analyses using Cox proportional hazards regression. Interactions between treatment (risperidone or placebo) and characteristic were analysed with a Cox proportional hazards regression model with main effects for treatment and characteristic in addition to the interaction term. RESULTS: Baseline complications of depression (treatment by risk factor interaction on cerebrovascular adverse event (CVAE) hazard ratio (HR): P = 0.025) and delusions (P = 0.043) were associated with a lower relative risk of CVAE in risperidone-treated patients (HR = 1.47 and 0.54, respectively) compared to not having the complication (HR = 5.88 and 4.16). For mortality, the only significant baseline predictor in patients treated with risperidone was depression, which was associated with a lower relative risk (P<0.001). The relative risk of mortality was increased in risperidone patients treated with anti-inflammatory medications (P = 0.021). CONCLUSIONS: Only anti-inflammatory medications increased mortality risk with risperidone. The reduced risks of CVAE in patients with comorbid depression and delusions, and of mortality with depression, may have clinical implications when weighing the benefits and risks of treatment with risperidone in patients with dementia.

Htike, Z. Z., et al. (2017). "Efficacy and safety of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists in type 2 diabetes: A systematic review and mixed-treatment comparison analysis." Diabetes Obes Metab 19(4): 524-536.
	AIMS: To compare efficacy and safety of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs) in people with type 2 diabetes. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We electronically searched, up to June 3, 2016, published randomized clinical trials lasting between 24 and 32 weeks that compared a GLP-1RA (albiglutide, dulaglutide, twice-daily exenatide and once-weekly exenatide, liraglutide, lixisenatide, semaglutide and taspoglutide) with placebo or another GLP-1RA. Data on cardiometabolic and safety outcomes were analysed using a mixed-treatment comparison meta-analysis. RESULTS: A total of 34 trials (14 464 participants) met the inclusion criteria; no published data for semaglutide were available. Compared with placebo, all GLP-1RAs reduced glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) and fasting plasma glucose (FPG) levels (reductions ranged from -0.55% and -0.73 mmol/L, respectively, for lixisenatide to -1.21% and -1.97 mmol/L, respectively, for dulaglutide). There were no differences within short-acting (twice-daily exenatide and lixisenatide) or long-acting (albiglutide, dulaglutide, once-weekly exenatide, liraglutide and taspoglutide) groups. Compared with twice-daily exenatide, dulaglutide treatment was associated with the greatest HbA1c and FPG reduction (0.51% and 1.04 mmol/L, respectively), followed by liraglutide (0.45% and 0.93 mmol/L, respectively) and once-weekly exenatide (0.38% and 0.85 mmol/L, respectively); similar reductions were found when these 3 agents were compared with lixisenatide. Compared with placebo, all GLP-1RAs except albiglutide reduced weight and increased the risk of hypoglycaemia and gastrointestinal side effects, and all agents except dulaglutide and taspoglutide reduced systolic blood pressure. When all GLP-1RAs were compared with each other, no clinically meaningful differences were observed in weight loss, blood pressure reduction or hypoglycaemia risk. Albiglutide had the lowest risk of nausea and diarrhoea and once-weekly exenatide the lowest risk of vomiting. CONCLUSIONS: The RCTs in the present analysis show that all GLP-1RAs improve glycaemic control, reduce body weight and increase the risk of adverse gastrointestinal symptoms compared with placebo. Although there were no differences when short-acting agents were compared with each other or when long-acting agents were compared with each other, dulaglutide, liraglutide and once-weekly exenatide were superior to twice-daily exenatide and lixisenatide at lowering HbA1c and FPG levels. There were no differences in hypoglycaemia between these 3 agents, whilst once-weekly exenatide had the lowest risk of vomiting. These results, along with patient's preferences and individualized targets, should be considered when selecting a GLP-1RA.

Hua, H., et al. (2017). "One-stage individual participant data meta-analysis models: estimation of treatment-covariate interactions must avoid ecological bias by separating out within-trial and across-trial information." Stat Med 36(5): 772-789.
	Stratified medicine utilizes individual-level covariates that are associated with a differential treatment effect, also known as treatment-covariate interactions. When multiple trials are available, meta-analysis is used to help detect true treatment-covariate interactions by combining their data. Meta-regression of trial-level information is prone to low power and ecological bias, and therefore, individual participant data (IPD) meta-analyses are preferable to examine interactions utilizing individual-level information. However, one-stage IPD models are often wrongly specified, such that interactions are based on amalgamating within- and across-trial information. We compare, through simulations and an applied example, fixed-effect and random-effects models for a one-stage IPD meta-analysis of time-to-event data where the goal is to estimate a treatment-covariate interaction. We show that it is crucial to centre patient-level covariates by their mean value in each trial, in order to separate out within-trial and across-trial information. Otherwise, bias and coverage of interaction estimates may be adversely affected, leading to potentially erroneous conclusions driven by ecological bias. We revisit an IPD meta-analysis of five epilepsy trials and examine age as a treatment effect modifier. The interaction is -0.011 (95% CI: -0.019 to -0.003; p = 0.004), and thus highly significant, when amalgamating within-trial and across-trial information. However, when separating within-trial from across-trial information, the interaction is -0.007 (95% CI: -0.019 to 0.005; p = 0.22), and thus its magnitude and statistical significance are greatly reduced. We recommend that meta-analysts should only use within-trial information to examine individual predictors of treatment effect and that one-stage IPD models should separate within-trial from across-trial information to avoid ecological bias. (c) 2016 The Authors. Statistics in Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Inker, L. A., et al. (2016). "Early Change in Urine Protein as a Surrogate End Point in Studies of IgA Nephropathy: An Individual-Patient Meta-analysis." Am J Kidney Dis 68(3): 392-401.
	BACKGROUND: The role of change in proteinuria as a surrogate end point for randomized trials in immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) has previously not been thoroughly evaluated. STUDY DESIGN: Individual patient-level meta-analysis. SETTING & POPULATION: Individual-patient data for 830 patients from 11 randomized trials evaluating 4 intervention types (renin-angiotensin system [RAS] blockade, fish oil, immunosuppression, and steroids) examining associations between changes in urine protein and clinical end points at the individual and trial levels. SELECTION CRITERIA FOR STUDIES: Randomized controlled trials of IgAN with measurements of proteinuria at baseline and a median of 9 (range, 5-12) months follow-up, with at least 1 further year of follow-up for the clinical outcome. PREDICTOR: 9-month change in proteinuria. OUTCOME: Doubling of serum creatinine level, end-stage renal disease, or death. RESULTS: Early decline in proteinuria at 9 months was associated with lower risk for the clinical outcome (HR per 50% reduction in proteinuria, 0.40; 95% CI, 0.32-0.48) and was consistent across studies. Proportions of treatment effect on the clinical outcome explained by early decline in proteinuria were estimated at 11% (95% CI, -19% to 41%) for RAS blockade and 29% (95% CI, 6% to 53%) for steroid therapy. The direction of the pooled treatment effect on early change in proteinuria was in accord with the direction of the treatment effect on the clinical outcome for steroids and RAS blockade. Trial-level analyses estimated that the slope for the regression line for the association of treatment effects on the clinical end points and for the treatment effect on proteinuria was 2.15 (95% Bayesian credible interval, 0.10-4.32). LIMITATIONS: Study population restricted to 11 trials, all having fewer than 200 patients each with a limited number of clinical events. CONCLUSIONS: Results of this analysis offer novel evidence supporting the use of an early reduction in proteinuria as a surrogate end point for clinical end points in IgAN in selected settings.

Ismaila, A. S., et al. (2015). "Comparative efficacy of long-acting muscarinic antagonist monotherapies in COPD: a systematic review and network meta-analysis." Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis 10: 2495-2517.
	BACKGROUND: Randomized, controlled trials comparing long-acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) efficacy in COPD are limited. This network meta-analysis (NMA) assessed the relative efficacy of tiotropium 18 microg once-daily (OD) and newer agents (aclidinium 400 microg twice-daily, glycopyrronium 50 microg OD, and umeclidinium 62.5 microg OD). METHODS: A systematic literature review identified randomized, controlled trials of adult COPD patients receiving LAMAs. A NMA within a Bayesian framework examined change from baseline in trough forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1), transitional dyspnea index focal score, St George's Respiratory Questionnaire score, and rescue medication use. RESULTS: Twenty-four studies (n=21,311) compared LAMAs with placebo/each other. Aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium, and umeclidinium, respectively, demonstrated favorable results versus placebo, for change from baseline (95% credible interval) in 12-week trough FEV1 (primary endpoint: 101.40 mL [77.06-125.60]; 117.20 mL [104.50-129.90]; 114.10 mL [103.10-125.20]; 136.70 mL [104.20-169.20]); 24-week trough FEV1 (128.10 mL [84.10-172.00]; 135.80 mL [123.10-148.30]; 106.40 mL [95.45-117.30]; 115.00 mL [74.51-155.30]); 24-week St George's Respiratory Questionnaire score (-4.60 [-6.76 to -2.54]; -3.14 [-3.83 to -2.45]; -2.43 [-2.92 to -1.93]; -4.69 [-7.05 to -2.31]); 24-week transitional dyspnea index score (1.00 [0.41-1.59]; 1.01 [0.79-1.22]; 0.82 [0.62-1.02]; 1.00 [0.49-1.51]); and 24-week rescue medication use (data not available; -0.41 puffs/day [-0.62 to -0.20]; -0.52 puffs/day [-0.74 to -0.30]; -0.30 puffs/day [-0.81 to 0.21]). For 12-week trough FEV1, differences in change from baseline (95% credible interval) were -12.8 mL (-39.39 to 13.93), aclidinium versus tiotropium; 3.08 mL (-7.58 to 13.69), glycopyrronium versus tiotropium; 22.58 mL (-11.58 to 56.97), umeclidinium versus tiotropium; 15.90 mL (-11.60 to 43.15), glycopyrronium versus aclidinium; 35.40 mL (-5.06 to 76.07), umeclidinium versus aclidinium; and 19.50 mL (-15.30 to 54.38), umeclidinium versus glycopyrronium. Limitations included inhaler-related factors and safety; longer-term outcomes were not considered. CONCLUSION: The new LAMAs studied had at least comparable efficacy to tiotropium, the established class standard. Choice should depend on physician's and patient's preference.

Jabaudon, M., et al. (2018). "Plasma sRAGE is independently associated with increased mortality in ARDS: a meta-analysis of individual patient data." Intensive Care Med 44(9): 1388-1399.
	PURPOSE: The soluble receptor for advanced glycation end-products (sRAGE) is a marker of lung epithelial injury and alveolar fluid clearance (AFC), with promising values for assessing prognosis and lung injury severity in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Because AFC is impaired in most patients with ARDS and is associated with higher mortality, we hypothesized that baseline plasma sRAGE would predict mortality, independently of two key mediators of ventilator-induced lung injury. METHODS: We conducted a meta-analysis of individual data from 746 patients enrolled in eight prospective randomized and observational studies in which plasma sRAGE was measured in ARDS articles published through March 2016. The primary outcome was 90-day mortality. Using multivariate and mediation analyses, we tested the association between baseline plasma sRAGE and mortality, independently of driving pressure and tidal volume. RESULTS: Higher baseline plasma sRAGE [odds ratio (OR) for each one-log increment, 1.18; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01-1.38; P = 0.04], driving pressure (OR for each one-point increment, 1.04; 95% CI 1.02-1.07; P = 0.002), and tidal volume (OR for each one-log increment, 1.98; 95% CI 1.07-3.64; P = 0.03) were independently associated with higher 90-day mortality in multivariate analysis. Baseline plasma sRAGE mediated a small fraction of the effect of higher DeltaP on mortality but not that of higher VT. CONCLUSIONS: Higher baseline plasma sRAGE was associated with higher 90-day mortality in patients with ARDS, independently of driving pressure and tidal volume, thus reinforcing the likely contribution of alveolar epithelial injury as an important prognostic factor in ARDS. Registration: PROSPERO (ID: CRD42018100241).

Jacobs, C., et al. (2015). "Are adjuvant bisphosphonates now standard of care of women with early stage breast cancer? A debate from the Canadian Bone and the Oncologist New Updates meeting." J Bone Oncol 4(2): 54-58.
	The 9th Bone and the Oncologist New Updates conference was held in Ottawa, Canada during 2014. This annual meeting focuses on innovative research into the mechanisms and consequences of treatment-induced and metastatic bone disease. Given the recent presentation of the Oxford overview's "Effects of bisphosphonate treatment on recurrence and cause-specific mortality in women with early breast cancer: A meta-analysis of individual patient data from randomized trials" at the San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium, a debate as to the pro's and con's of adjuvant bisphosphonate use in early stage breast cancer was undertaken. As bisphosphonate treatment in post-menopausal women appeared to demonstrate a similar magnitude of benefit to that of other commonly used adjuvant strategies the debate assessed whether or not there was sufficient data to incorporate adjuvant bisphosphonates into standard practice and if so, in which patient populations.

Jacquemyn, Y., et al. (2015). "The use of intravenous magnesium in non-preeclamptic pregnant women: fetal/neonatal neuroprotection." Arch Gynecol Obstet 291(5): 969-975.
	PURPOSE: To review the effect of intravenous magnesium in obstetrics on fetal/neonatal neuroprotection. METHODS: A systematic review of published studies. RESULTS: Five randomized trials and 4 meta-analyses have shown a significant 32% reduction of cerebral palsy when administering magnesium sulfate in case of preterm delivery. The pathophysiologic mechanism is not fully unraveled: modulation of the inflammatory process, both in the mother and the fetus, and downregulation of neuronal stimulation seem to be involved. After long-term high-dose intravenous administration of magnesium, maternal and neonatal adverse effects such as maternal and neonatal hypotonia and osteoporosis and specific fetal/neonatal cerebral lesions have been described. In case of administration for less than 48 h at 1 g/h and a loading dose of 4 g, these toxic amounts are not achieved. American, Canadian and Australian guidelines recommend the use of intravenous magnesium in any threatening delivery at less than 32 weeks. The "number needed to treat" to avoid 1 cerebral palsy is between 15 and 35. CONCLUSIONS: Intravenous magnesium significantly reduces the risk for cerebral palsy in preterm birth. Open questions remain the optimal dosing schedule, whether or not repeating when delivery has been successfully postponed and a new episode of preterm labor occurs. Some concern has been raised on a too optimistic value for random error which might have led to over-optimistic conclusions in classic meta-analysis. Randomized trials comparing different doses and individual patient data meta-analysis might resolve these issues.

Jaja, B. N., et al. (2015). "Prognostic value of premorbid hypertension and neurological status in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage: pooled analyses of individual patient data in the SAHIT repository." J Neurosurg 122(3): 644-652.
	OBJECT: The literature has conflicting reports about the prognostic value of premorbid hypertension and neurological status in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH). The aim of this study was to investigate the prognostic value of premorbid hypertension and neurological status in the SAH International Trialists repository. METHODS: Patient-level meta-analyses were conducted to investigate univariate associations between premorbid hypertension (6 studies; n = 7249), admission neurological status measured on the World Federation of Neurosurgical Societies (WFNS) scale (10 studies; n = 10,869), and 3-month Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS) score. Multivariable analyses were performed to sequentially adjust for the effects of age, CT clot burden, aneurysm location, aneurysm size, and modality of aneurysm repair. Prognostic associations were estimated across the ordered categories of the GOS using proportional odds models. Nagelkerke's R(2) statistic was used to quantify the added prognostic value of hypertension and neurological status beyond those of the adjustment factors. RESULTS: Premorbid hypertension was independently associated with poor outcome, with an unadjusted pooled odds ratio (OR) of 1.73 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.50-2.00) and an adjusted OR of 1.38 (95% CI 1.25-1.53). Patients with a premorbid history of hypertension had higher rates of cardiovascular and renal comorbidities, poorer neurological status (p </= 0.001), and higher odds of neurological complications including cerebral infarctions, hydrocephalus, rebleeding, and delayed ischemic neurological deficits. Worsening neurological status was strongly independently associated with poor outcome, including WFNS Grades II (OR 1.85, 95% CI 1.68-2.03), III (OR 3.85, 95% CI 3.32-4.47), IV (OR 5.58, 95% CI 4.91-6.35), and V (OR 14.18, 95% CI 12.20-16.49). Neurological status had substantial added predictive value greater than the combined value of other prognostic factors (R(2) increase > 10%), while the added predictive value of hypertension was marginal (R(2) increase < 0.5%). CONCLUSIONS: This study confirmed the strong prognostic effect of neurological status as measured on the WFNS scale and the independent but weak prognostic effect of premorbid hypertension. The effect of premorbid hypertension could involve multifactorial mechanisms, including an increase in the severity of initial bleeding, the rate of comorbid events, and neurological complications.

Jia, J., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of rivaroxaban for pulmonary embolism." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(16): e15224.
	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials have addressed that rivaroxaban is effective for the treatment of patients with pulmonary embolism (PE). This study will systematically assess its efficacy and safety for PE. METHODS: We will carry out this study by searching the following electronic databases from inception to March 1, 2019 without language restrictions: Cochrane Library, EMBASE, PUBMED, Web of Science, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure. In addition, we will also search clinical trial registries, dissertations, and conference abstracts to avoid any missing potential studies. All randomized controlled trials of rivaroxaban for patients with PE will be fully considered. Two researchers will independently perform literature selection, data collection, and methodological quality assessment. If it is appropriate, outcome data will be pooled by using a fixed-effect model or random-effect model, and meta-analysis will be considered for operation. RESULTS: All efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban for PE will be assessed through all primary and secondary outcomes. The primary outcomes are all-cause mortality and major bleeding. The secondary outcomes are recurrent venous thromboembolism, duration of hospital stay, quality of life, patient satisfaction, and adverse events. CONCLUSION: The findings of this study will summarize updated evidence on the efficacy and safety of rivaroxaban for patients with PE. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: It is not necessary to inquire ethical approval for this study, because it will not analyze any individual patient data. The results of this study will be published through peer-reviewed journals. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42019126095.

Johansen, K. G. V., et al. (2017). "Harms associated with taking nalmefene for substance use and impulse control disorders: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials." PLoS One 12(8): e0183821.
	IMPORTANCE: Nalmefene is a newly approved drug for alcohol use disorder, but the risk of harms has not been evaluated from empirical trial evidence. OBJECTIVE: To assess the harm of nalmefene administered to individuals diagnosed with substance use or impulse control disorders by performing a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials. DATA SOURCES: A search was performed in Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, 2014), MEDLINE via PubMed (1950), EMBASE via Ovid (1974), and Clinicaltrials.gov through December 2014. STUDY SELECTION: This study included only randomised controlled trials with placebo or active controls that administered nalmefene to adult individuals for treating impulse control and/or substance use disorders. Both published and unpublished randomised controlled trials were eligible for inclusion. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Internal validity was assessed using the Cochrane risk-of-bias tool. Published information from the trials was supplemented by contact between reviewers and industry sponsor. Data were combined using two meta-approaches in fixed effects models; Peto Odds Ratios and risk differences were reported with 95% confidence intervals (95%CIs). MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Number of patients with serious adverse events, including specific psychiatric serious adverse events and withdrawals due to adverse events. RESULTS: Of 20 potentially relevant studies, 15 randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria, and 8 of these provided data enabling the meta-analysis. Overall, serious adverse events did not occur more often in the nalmefene group than in the placebo group (Peto Odds Ratio = 0.97 [95% CI 0.64-1.44]; P = 0.86). Risk of psychiatric serious adverse events was slightly elevated, albeit not at a statistically significant level (Peto Odds Ratio = 1.32 [95% CI 0.62, 2.83]; P = 0.47). Withdrawals due to adverse events were significantly more likely to occur with nalmefene compared to placebo (Peto Odds Ratio = 3.22 [95% CI 2.46-4.22]; P<0.001). CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The three-fold increased risk of withdrawal from treatment on nalmefene due to adverse events is a matter of safety concern. The nature of these adverse events cannot be elucidated further without access to individual patients data.

Johnson, M. I., et al. (2019). "The clinical efficacy of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for acute and chronic pain: a protocol for a meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials (RCTs)." BMJ Open 9(10): e029999.
	INTRODUCTION: The aim of this systematic review with meta-analysis is to evaluate the clinical efficacy of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for any type of acute and chronic pain in adults. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We intend to search electronic databases (Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, PsycINFO, LILACS, PEDRO, Web of Science, AMED and SPORTDiscus) from inception to the present day to identify all randomised controlled trials (RCT) on the use of TENS in adults for any type of pain including acute pain, chronic pain and cancer-related pain. We will screen the RCTs against eligibility criteria for inclusion in our review. Two reviewers will independently undertake RCT selection, data extraction and risk of bias assessment. Primary outcomes will be: (i) participant-reported pain relief of >/=30% expressed as frequency (dichotomous) data; and (ii) participant-reported pain intensity expressed as mean (continuous) data. We will conduct meta-analyses to determine risk ratio for dichotomous data, and mean difference (MD) or standardised MD for continuous data for TENS versus placebo TENS, no treatment or waiting list control, standard of care, and other treatments. Subgroup analyses will include different pain conditions (eg, acute vs chronic), TENS intensity, during versus after TENS, TENS as a sole treatment versus TENS in combination with other treatments and TENS administered as a single dose versus repetitive dose. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This systematic review will not use data from individual participants, and the results will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed publication and presented at a conference. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019125054.

Jonkman, N. H., et al. (2017). "Complex self-management interventions in chronic disease unravelled: a review of lessons learned from an individual patient data meta-analysis." J Clin Epidemiol 83: 48-56.
	OBJECTIVES: Meta-analyses using individual patient data (IPD) rather than aggregated data are increasingly applied to analyze sources of heterogeneity between trials and have only recently been applied to unravel multicomponent, complex interventions. This study reflects on methodological challenges encountered in two IPD meta-analyses on self-management interventions in patients with heart failure or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Critical reflection on prior IPD meta-analyses and discussion of literature. RESULTS: Experience from two IPD meta-analyses illustrates methodological challenges. Despite close collaboration with principal investigators, assessing the effect of characteristics of complex interventions on the outcomes of trials is compromised by lack of sufficient details on intervention characteristics and limited data on fidelity and adherence. Furthermore, trials collected baseline variables in a highly diverse way, limiting the possibilities to study subgroups of patients in a consistent manner. Possible solutions are proposed based on lessons learnt from the methodological challenges. CONCLUSION: Future researchers of complex interventions should pay considerable attention to the causal mechanism underlying the intervention and conducting process evaluations. Future researchers on IPD meta-analyses of complex interventions should carefully consider their own causal assumptions and availability of required data in eligible trials before undertaking such resource-intensive IPD meta-analysis.

Jull, A., et al. (2016). "Low-dose aspirin as an adjuvant treatment for venous leg ulceration: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial (Aspirin4VLU)." J Adv Nurs 72(3): 669-679.
	AIM: The aim of this study was to determine the effect of low-dose aspirin on venous leg ulcer healing when used in addition to compression. BACKGROUND: The mainstay of treatment for venous leg ulcers is compression therapy and there are few adjuvant treatments to accelerate healing. DESIGN: Pragmatic, community-based, double-blind, randomized trial. METHODS: Participants with venous leg ulcers will receive either 150 mg aspirin or placebo daily for up to 24 weeks. Participants will receive background treatment with compression therapy (system of choice guided by participant and/or clinical preference) delivered through district nursing services. The primary outcome will be time-to-healing. Secondary outcomes will include proportion healed at 24 weeks, change in ulcer area, change in health-related quality of life, adherence, efficacy of blinding and adverse events. The trial was funded in June 2014. DISCUSSION: The trial commenced in March 2015 and is successfully recruiting. The trial is one of three trials that will contribute to an individual participant data meta-analysis to be undertaken at the York Trials Centre. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Registered 5 June 2014 ClinicalTrials.gov NCT02158806. Protocol version 1.1, 14 April 2015.

Juras, R., et al. (2019). "Adolescent Pregnancy Prevention: Meta-Analysis of Federally Funded Program Evaluations." Am J Public Health 109(4): e1-e8.
	BACKGROUND: Beginning in 2010, the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) funded more than 40 evaluations of adolescent pregnancy prevention interventions. The government's emphasis on rigor and transparency, along with a requirement that grantees collect standardized behavioral outcomes, ensured that findings could be meaningfully compared across evaluations. OBJECTIVES: We used random and mixed-effects meta-analysis to analyze the findings generated by these evaluations to learn whether program elements, program implementation features, and participant demographics were associated with effects on adolescent sexual risk behavior. SEARCH METHODS: We screened all 43 independent evaluation reports, some of which included multiple studies, funded by HHS and completed before October 1, 2016. HHS released, and our team considered, all such studies regardless of favorability or statistical significance. SELECTION CRITERIA: Of these studies, we included those that used a randomized or high-quality quasi-experimental research design. We excluded studies that did not use statistical matching or provide pretest equivalence data on a measure of sexual behavior or a close proxy. We also excluded studies that compared 2 pregnancy prevention interventions without a control group. A total of 44 studies from 39 reports, comprising 51 150 youths, met the inclusion criteria. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two researchers extracted data from each study by using standard systematic reviewing and meta-analysis procedures. In addition, study authors provided individual participant data for a subset of 34 studies. We used mixed-effects meta-regressions with aggregate data to examine whether program or participant characteristics were associated with program effects on adolescent sexual risk behaviors and consequences. To examine whether individual-level participant characteristics such as age, gender, and race/ethnicity were associated with program effects, we used a 1-stage meta-regression approach combining participant-level data (48 635 youths) with aggregate data from the 10 studies for which participant-level data were not available. MAIN RESULTS: Across all 44 studies, we found small but statistically insignificant mean effects favoring the programs and little variability around those means. Only 2 program characteristics showed statistically reliable relationships with program effects. First, gender-specific (girl-only) programs yielded a statistically significant average effect size (P < .05). Second, programs with individualized service delivery were more effective than programs delivering services to youths in small groups (P < .05). We found no other statistically significant associations between program effects and program or participant characteristics, or evaluation methods. Nor was there a statistically significant difference in the mean effect sizes for programs with previous evidence of effectiveness and previously untested programs. CONCLUSIONS: Although several individual studies reported positive impacts, the average effects were small and there was minimal variation in effect sizes across studies on all of the outcomes assessed. Thus, we were unable to confidently identify which individual program characteristics were associated with effects. However, these studies examined relatively short-term effects and it is an open question whether some programs, perhaps with distinctive characteristics, will show longer-term effects as more of the adolescent participants become sexually active. Public Health Implications. The success of a small number of individualized interventions designed specifically for girls in changing behavioral outcomes suggests the need to reexamine the assumptions that underlie coed group approaches. However, given the almost total absence of similar programs targeting male adolescents, it is likely to be some time before evidence to support or reject such an approach for boys is available.

Kaneko, H., et al. (2017). "Evolution and revolution of laparoscopic liver resection in Japan." Ann Gastroenterol Surg 1(1): 33-43.
	Due to important technological developments and improved endoscopic techniques, laparoscopic liver resection (LLR) is now considered the approach of choice and is increasingly performed worldwide. Recent systematic reviews and meta-analyses of observational data reported that LLR was associated with less bleeding, fewer complications, and no oncological disadvantage; however, no prospective randomized trials have been conducted. LLR will continue to evolve as a surgical approach that improves patient's quality of life. LLR will not totally supplant open liver surgery, and major LLR remains to be technically challenging procedure. The success of LLR depends on individual learning curves and adherence to surgical indications. A recent study proposed a scoring system for stepwise application of LLR, which was based on experience at high-volume Japanese centers. A cluster of deaths after major LLR was sensationally reported by the Japanese media in 2014. In response, the Japanese Society of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery conducted emergency data collection on operative mortality. The results demonstrated that mortality was not higher than that for open procedures except for hemi-hepatectomy with biliary reconstruction. An online prospective registry system for LLR was established in 2015 to be transparent for patients who might potentially undergo treatment with this newly developed, technically demanding surgical procedure.

Kang, C., et al. (2018). "Evaluation of biomarkers for treatment selection using individual participant data from multiple clinical trials." Stat Med 37(9): 1439-1453.
	Biomarkers that predict treatment effects may be used to guide treatment decisions, thus improving patient outcomes. A meta-analysis of individual participant data (IPD) is potentially more powerful than a single-study data analysis in evaluating markers for treatment selection. Our study was motivated by the IPD that were collected from 2 randomized controlled trials of hypertension and preeclampsia among pregnant women to evaluate the effect of labor induction over expectant management of the pregnancy in preventing progression to severe maternal disease. The existing literature on statistical methods for biomarker evaluation in IPD meta-analysis have evaluated a marker's performance in terms of its ability to predict risk of disease outcome, which do not directly apply to the treatment selection problem. In this study, we propose a statistical framework for evaluating a marker for treatment selection given IPD from a small number of individual clinical trials. We derive marker-based treatment rules by minimizing the average expected outcome across studies. The application of the proposed methods to the IPD from 2 studies in women with hypertension in pregnancy is presented.

Karumbi, J. and P. Garner (2015). "Directly observed therapy for treating tuberculosis." Cochrane Database Syst Rev(5): Cd003343.
	BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) requires at least six months of treatment. If treatment is incomplete, patients may not be cured and drug resistance may develop. Directly Observed Therapy (DOT) is a specific strategy, endorsed by the World Health Organization, to improve adherence by requiring health workers, community volunteers or family members to observe and record patients taking each dose. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate DOT compared to self-administered therapy in people on treatment for active TB or on prophylaxis to prevent active disease. We also compared the effects of different forms of DOT. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases up to 13 January 2015: the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), published in the Cochrane Library; MEDLINE; EMBASE; LILACS and mRCT. We also checked article reference lists and contacted relevant researchers and organizations. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi-RCTs comparing DOT with routine self-administration of treatment or prophylaxis at home. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed risk of bias of each included trial and extracted data. We compared interventions using risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We used a random-effects model if meta-analysis was appropriate but heterogeneity present (I(2) statistic > 50%). We assessed the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. MAIN RESULTS: Eleven trials including 5662 participants met the inclusion criteria. DOT was performed by a range of people (nurses, community health workers, family members or former TB patients) in a variety of settings (clinic, the patient's home or the home of a community volunteer). DOT versus self-administered Six trials from South Africa, Thailand, Taiwan, Pakistan and Australia compared DOT with self-administered therapy for treatment. Trials included DOT at home by family members, community health workers (who were usually supervised); DOT at home by health staff; and DOT at health facilities. TB cure was low with self-administration across all studies (range 41% to 67%), and direct observation did not substantially improve this (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.91 to 1.27; five trials, 1645 participants, moderate quality evidence). In a subgroup analysis stratified by the frequency of contact between health services in the self-treatment arm, daily DOT may improve TB cure when compared to self-administered treatment where patients in the self-administered group only visited the clinic every month (RR 1.15, 95% CI 1.06 to 1.25; two trials, 900 participants); but with contact in the control becoming more frequent, this small effect was not apparent (every two weeks: RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.83 to 1.12; one trial, 497 participants; every week: RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.68 to 1.21; two trials, 248 participants).Treatment completion showed a similar pattern, ranging from 59% to 78% in the self-treatment groups, and direct observation did not improve this (RR 1.07, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.19; six trials, 1839 participants, moderate quality evidence). DOT at home versus DOT at health facility In four trials that compared DOT at home by family members, or community health workers, with DOT by health workers at a health facility there was little or no difference in cure or treatment completion (cure: RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.18, four trials, 1556 participants, moderate quality evidence; treatment completion: RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.91 to 1.17, three trials, 1029 participants, moderate quality evidence). DOT by family member versus DOT by community health workerTwo trials compared DOT at home by family members with DOT at home by community health workers. There was also little or no difference in cure or treatment completion (cure: RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.21; two trials, 1493 participants, moderate quality evidence; completion: RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.22; two trials, 1493 participants, low quality evidence). Specific patient categoriesA trial of 300 intravenous drug users in the USA evaluated direct observation with no observation in TB prophylaxis to prevent active disease and showed little difference in treatment completion (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.13; one trial, 300 participants, low quality evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: From the existing trials, DOT did not provide a solution to poor adherence in TB treatment. Given the large resource and cost implications of DOT, policy makers might want to reconsider strategies that depend on direct observation. Other options might take into account financial and logistical barriers to care; approaches that motivate patients and staff; and defaulter follow-up.

Katsanos, A. H., et al. (2019). "Mortality Risk in Acute Ischemic Stroke Patients With Large Vessel Occlusion Treated With Mechanical Thrombectomy." J Am Heart Assoc 8(21): e014425.
	Background Recent randomized controlled clinical trials have provided solid evidence that mechanical thrombectomy (MT) coupled with best medical therapy (BMT) improve functional outcomes of acute ischemic stroke patients with large vessel occlusion compared with BMT alone. However, they provided inconclusive evidence on the benefit of MT on mortality. Methods and Results We evaluated the association of MT+BMT compared with BMT with the risk of 3-month mortality using aggregate data from all available randomized controlled clinical trials. We also sought to identify potential predictors on the mortality risk and performed univariate meta-regression analyses. Our literature search identified 11 eligible randomized controlled clinical trials, including a total of 2460 patients. The pooled rates of 3-month mortality were 15% (95% CI:12%-19%) and 19% (95% CI:16%-23%), respectively, in the MT+BMT and BMT groups. In the overall analysis MT+BMT was associated with a significantly lower risk for 3-month mortality compared with BMT (risk ratio=0.83, 95% CI:0.69-0.99; P=0.04), without heterogeneity across included studies (I(2)=3%, P for Cochran Q=0.41). No evidence of publication bias was present in funnel plot inspection and Egger statistical test (P=0.762). In meta-regression analyses no moderating effect on the aforementioned association was detected with patient age (P=0.254), sex (P=0.702), admission systolic blood pressure (P=0.601), admission glucose (P=0.277), onset-to-groin puncture time (P=0.985), administration of intravenous alteplase before MT (P=0.804), MT under general anesthesia (P=0.735), and successful reperfusion following MT (P=0.663). Conclusions Our meta-analysis provides evidence that MT+BMT reduces the risk of 3-month mortality compared with BMT alone. This association appears not to be moderated by individual patient or procedural characteristics.

Kawahara, T., et al. (2018). "Meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials in the era of individual patient data sharing." Int J Clin Oncol 23(3): 403-409.
	BACKGROUND: Individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis is considered to be a gold standard when the results of several randomized trials are combined. Recent initiatives on sharing IPD from clinical trials offer unprecedented opportunities for using such data in IPD meta-analyses. METHODS: First, we discuss the evidence generated and the benefits obtained by a long-established prospective IPD meta-analysis in early breast cancer. Next, we discuss a data-sharing system that has been adopted by several pharmaceutical sponsors. We review a number of retrospective IPD meta-analyses that have already been proposed using this data-sharing system. Finally, we discuss the role of data sharing in IPD meta-analysis in the future. RESULTS: Treatment effects can be more reliably estimated in both types of IPD meta-analyses than with summary statistics extracted from published papers. Specifically, with rich covariate information available on each patient, prognostic and predictive factors can be identified or confirmed. Also, when several endpoints are available, surrogate endpoints can be assessed statistically. CONCLUSIONS: Although there are difficulties in conducting, analyzing, and interpreting retrospective IPD meta-analysis utilizing the currently available data-sharing systems, data sharing will play an important role in IPD meta-analysis in the future.

Kebede, M. M., et al. (2019). "Comparison of three meta-analytic methods using data from digital interventions on type 2 diabetes." Diabetes Metab Syndr Obes 12: 59-73.
	Aims: Pooling the effect sizes of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from continuous outcomes, such as glycated hemoglobin level (HbA1c), is an important method in evidence syntheses. However, due to challenges related to baseline imbalances and pre/post correlations, simple analysis of change scores (SACS) and simple analysis of final values (SAFV) meta-analyses result in under- or overestimation of effect estimates. This study was aimed to compare pooled effect sizes estimated by Analysis of Covariance (ANCOVA), SACS, and SAFV meta-analyses, using the example of RCTs of digital interventions with HbA1c as the main outcome. Materials and methods: Three databases were systematically searched for RCTs published from 1993 through June 2017. Two reviewers independently assessed titles and abstracts using predefined eligibility criteria, assessed study quality, and extracted data, with disagreements resolved by arbitration from a third reviewer. Results: ANCOVA, SACS, and SAFV resulted in pooled HbA1c mean differences of -0.39% (95% CI: [-0.51, -0.26]), -0.39% (95% CI: [-0.51, -0.26]), and -0.34% (95% CI: [-0.48-0.19]), respectively. Removing studies with both high baseline imbalance (>/=+/-0.2%) and pre/post correlation of >/=+/-0.6 resulted in a mean difference of -0.39% (95% CI: [-0.53, -0.26]), -0.40% (95% CI: [-0.54, -0.26]), and -0.33% (95% CI: [-0.48, -0.18]) with ANCOVA, SACS, and SAFV meta-analyses, respectively. Substantial heterogeneity was noted. Egger's test for funnel plot symmetry did not indicate evidence of publication bias for all methods. Conclusion: By all meta-analytic methods, digital interventions appear effective in reducing HbA1c in type 2 diabetes. The effort to adjust for baseline imbalance and pre/post correlation using ANCOVA relies on the level of detail reported from individual studies. Reporting detailed summary data and, ideally, access to individual patient data of intervention trials are essential.

Kemmler, W., et al. (2018). "Efficacy and Safety of Low Frequency Whole-Body Electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) to Improve Health-Related Outcomes in Non-athletic Adults. A Systematic Review." Front Physiol 9: 573.
	Exercise positively affects most risk factors, diseases and disabling conditions of middle to advanced age, however the majority of middle-aged to older people fall short of the exercise doses recommended for positively affecting cardio-metabolic, musculoskeletal and neurophysiological fitness or disabling conditions. Whole-Body Electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) may be a promising exercise technology for people unable or unmotivated to exercise conventionally. However, until recently there has been a dearth of evidence with respect to WB-EMS-induced effects on health-related outcomes. The aim of this systematic review is to summarize the effects, limitations and risks of WB-EMS as a preventive or therapeutic tool for non-athletic adults. Electronic searches in PubMed, Scopus, Web of Science, PsycINFO, Cochrane and Eric were run to identify randomized controlled trials, non-randomized controlled trials, meta-analyses of individual patient data and peer reviewed scientific theses that examined (1) WB-EMS-induced changes of musculoskeletal risk factors and diseases (2) WB-EMS-induced changes of functional capacity and physical fitness (3) WB-EMS-induced changes of cardio-metabolic risk factors and diseases (4) Risk factors of WB-EMS application and adverse effects during WB-EMS interventions. Two researchers independently reviewed articles for eligibility and methodological quality. Twenty-three eligible research articles generated by fourteen research projects were finally included. In summary, thirteen projects were WB-EMS trials and one study was a meta-analysis of individual patient data. WB-EMS significantly improves muscle mass and function while reducing fat mass and low back pain. Although there is some evidence of a positive effect of WB-EMS on cardio-metabolic risk factors, this aspect requires further detailed study. Properly applied and supervised, WB-EMS appears to be a safe training technology. In summary, WB-EMS represents a safe and reasonable option for cohorts unable or unwilling to join conventional exercise programs. However, much like all other types of exercise, WB-EMS does not affect every aspect of physical performance and health.

Kerstjens, H. A., et al. (2015). "The impact of treatment with indacaterol in patients with COPD: A post-hoc analysis according to GOLD 2011 categories A to D." Pulm Pharmacol Ther 32: 101-108.
	BACKGROUND: Indacaterol is an inhaled, once-daily, ultra-long-acting beta2-agonist for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). We report on the effectiveness of indacaterol and other bronchodilators compared with placebo in patients across the Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) 2011 categories A to D. METHODS: A post-hoc, subgroup pooled analysis of 6-month efficacy data from three randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel-group studies involving 3862 patients was performed across GOLD 2011 categories A to D, according to baseline forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1) % predicted, modified Medical Research Council (mMRC) dyspnea scale, and exacerbation history in the 12 months prior to entry. Efficacy of once-daily indacaterol 150 and 300 mug, open-label tiotropium 18 mug, twice-daily salmeterol 50 mug, and formoterol 12 mug was compared with placebo. End points analysed were trough FEV1, transition dyspnea index (TDI), and St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) total score, all at Week 26, and mean rescue medication use over 26 weeks. RESULTS: Indacaterol 150 and 300 mug significantly improved FEV1, compared with placebo across all GOLD groups. Indacaterol 150 and 300 mug also significantly improved TDI, SGRQ total score, and mean rescue medication use compared with placebo across most GOLD subgroups. CONCLUSIONS: Treatment selection according to patient's symptoms as well as lung function is an important consideration in maintenance treatment of COPD. Indacaterol 150 and 300 mug effectively improved lung function and symptoms in patients across all GOLD 2011 categories.

Kim, C., et al. (2019). "Influence of Anesthesia Type on Outcomes after Endovascular Treatment in Acute Ischemic Stroke: Meta-Analysis." Neurointervention 14(1): 17-26.
	PURPOSE: To assess clinical and angiographic outcomes after endovascular treatment (EVT) in ischemic stroke patients according to anesthesia types (general anesthesia vs. conscious sedation). MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic literature review through an online data base between January 1990 and September 2017 was performed. A fixed effect model was used in cases of <50% heterogeneity. The primary outcomes were good clinical outcome at the 3-month follow-up and successful recanalization. A meta-regression analysis was done to estimate primary outcomes of log odds ratio (OR) on onset-to-puncture time (OTP) differences. Publication bias was determined using Begg's funnel plot and additional the Trim and Fill method. RESULTS: Sixteen articles including 2,662 patients (general anesthesia, n=1,275; conscious sedation, n=1,387) were included. General anesthesia significantly decreased good outcomes than conscious sedation (OR, 0.564; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.354-0.899). However, outcomes did not differ significantly in randomized controlled trials (RCTs; OR, 1.101; 95% CI, 0.395-3.071). Anesthesia type was not associated with successful recanalization (OR, 0.985; 95% CI, 0.787-1.233). General anesthesia increased the risk of mortality (OR, 1.532; 95% CI, 1.187-1.976) and pneumonia (OR, 1.613; 95% CI, 1.172-2.221), but not symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (OR, 1.125; 95% CI, 0.767-1.652). The meta-regression analysis showed no linear relationship between OTP differences and log OR of good outcome (coefficient, 0.0004; P=0.95) or successful recanalization (coefficient, 0.0005; P=0.94), respectively. CONCLUSION: General anesthesia seemed to be associated with adverse clinical outcome after EVT. However, its efficacy was not demonstrated in RCTs. Successful recanalization did not differ according to anesthesia type. Studies using individual patient data based on further RCTs are necessary to elucidate anesthesia effect on procedural and clinical outcomes.

Kim, S. K. and M. Park (2017). "Effectiveness of person-centered care on people with dementia: a systematic review and meta-analysis." Clin Interv Aging 12: 381-397.
	BACKGROUND: Person-centered care is a holistic and integrative approach designed to maintain well-being and quality of life for people with dementia, and it includes the elements of care, the individual, the carers, and the family. AIM: A systematic literature review and meta-analysis were undertaken to investigate the effectiveness of person-centered care for people with dementia. METHODS: Literature searches were undertaken using six databases including Medline, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Cochrane Database, and KoreaMed using the following keywords: cognition disorder, dementia, person-centered care, patient-centered care, client-centered care, relationship-centered care, and dementia care. The searches were limited to interventional studies written in English and Korean and included randomized controlled studies and noncontrolled studies for people with dementia living in any setting. RESULTS: Nineteen interventional studies, including 3,985 participants, were identified. Of these, 17 studies were from long-term care facilities and two studies were from homecare settings. The pooled data from randomized controlled studies favored person-centered care in reducing agitation, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and depression and improving the quality of life. Subgroup analysis identified greater effectiveness of person-centered care when implemented for people with less severe dementia. For agitation, short-term interventions had a greater effect (standardized mean difference [SMD]: -0.434; 95% conference interval [CI]: -0.701 to -0.166) than long-term interventions (SMD: -0.098; 95% CI: -0.190 to 0.007). Individualized activities resulted in a significantly greater beneficial effect than standard care (SMD: 0.513; 95% CI: -0.994 to -0.032). However, long-term, staff education, and cultural change interventions had a greater effect on improving the quality of life for people with dementia (SMD: 0.191; 95% CI: 0.079 to 0.302). CONCLUSION: This systematic review and meta-analysis provided evidence for person-centered care in clinical practice for people with dementia. Person-centered care interventions were shown to reduce agitation, neuropsychiatric symptoms, and depression and to improve the quality of life. Person-centered care interventions can effectively reduce agitation for a short term using intensive and activity-based intervention. However, an educational strategy that promotes learning and skill development of internal care staff is needed to enhance patient's quality of life and to ensure the sustainability of the effects of behavioral problems. The feasibility and effectiveness of the intervention, the severity of patient disease, and intervention type and duration should be considered as part of an intervention design.

Kishimoto, T., et al. (2019). "Long-term effectiveness of oral second-generation antipsychotics in patients with schizophrenia and related disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis of direct head-to-head comparisons." World Psychiatry 18(2): 208-224.
	Second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are recommended for maintenance treatment in schizophrenia. However, comparative long-term effectiveness among SGAs is unclear. Here we provide a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized trials lasting >/=6 months comparing SGAs head-to-head in schizophrenia and related disorders. The primary outcome was all-cause discontinuation. Secondary outcomes included efficacy and tolerability, i.e., psychopathology, inefficacy-related and intolerability-related discontinuation, relapse, hospitalization, remission, functioning, quality of life, and adverse events. Pooled risk ratio and standardized mean difference were calculated using random-effects models. Across 59 studies (N=45,787), lasting 47.4+/-32.1 weeks (range 24-186), no consistent superiority of any SGA emerged across efficacy and tolerability outcomes. Regarding all-cause discontinuation, clozapine, olanzapine and risperidone were significantly (p<0.05) superior to several other SGAs, while quetiapine was inferior to several other SGAs. As to psychopathology, clozapine and olanzapine were superior to several other SGAs, while quetiapine and ziprasidone were inferior to several other SGAs. Data for other efficacy outcomes were sparse. Regarding intolerability-related discontinuation, risperidone was superior and clozapine was inferior to several other SGAs. Concerning weight gain, olanzapine was worse than all other compared non-clozapine SGAs, and risperidone was significantly worse than several other SGAs. As to prolactin increase, risperidone and amisulpride were significantly worse than several other SGAs. Regarding parkinsonism, olanzapine was superior to risperidone, without significant differences pertaining to akathisia. Concerning sedation and somnolence, clozapine and quetiapine were significantly worse than some other SGAs. In summary, different long-term SGA efficacy and tolerability patterns emerged. The long-term risk-benefit profiles of specific SGAs need to be tailored to individual patients to optimize maintenance treatment outcomes.

Kleeff, J., et al. (2016). "Evidence-Based Surgical Treatments for Chronic Pancreatitis." Dtsch Arztebl Int 113(29-30): 489-496.
	BACKGROUND: If conservative treatment of chronic pancreatitis is unsuccessful, surgery is an option. The choice of the most suitable surgical method can be difficult, as the indications, advantages, and disadvantages of the available methods have not yet been fully documented with scientific evidence. METHODS: In April 2015, we carried out a temporally unlimited systematic search for publications on surgery for chronic pancreatitis. The target parameters were morbidity, mortality, pain, endocrine and exocrine insuffi - ciency, weight gain, quality of life, length of hospital stay, and duration of urgery. Differences between surgical methods were studied with network meta-analysis, and duodenum-preserving operations were compared with partial duodenopancreatectomy with standard meta-analysis. RESULTS: Among the 326 articles initially identified, 8 randomized controlled trials on a total of 423 patients were included in the meta-analysis. The trials were markedly heterogeneous in some respects. There was no significant difference among surgical methods with respect to perioperative morbidity, pain, endocrine and exocrine insufficiency, or quality of life. Duodenumpreserving procedures, compared to duodenopancreatectomy, were associated with a long-term weight gain that was 3 kg higher (p <0.001; three trials), a mean length of hospital stay that was 3 days shorter (p = 0.009; six trials), and a duration of surgery that was 2 hours shorter (p <0.001; five trials). CONCLUSION: Duodenum-preserving surgery for chronic pancreatitis is superior to partial duodenopancreatectomy in multiple respects. Only limited recommendations can be given, however, on the basis of present data. The question of the best surgical method for the individual patient, in view of the clinical manifestations, anatomy, and diagnostic criteria, remains open.

Kolovos, S., et al. (2017). "Utility scores for different health states related to depression: individual participant data analysis." Qual Life Res 26(7): 1649-1658.
	OBJECTIVES: Depression is associated with considerable impairments in health-related quality-of-life. However, the relationship between different health states related to depression severity and utility scores is unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether utility scores are different for various health states related to depression severity. METHODS: We gathered individual participant data from ten randomized controlled trials evaluating depression treatments. The UK EQ-5D and SF-6D tariffs were used to generate utility scores. We defined five health states that were proposed from American Psychiatric Association and National Institute for Clinical Excellence guidelines: remission, minor depression, mild depression, moderate depression, and severe depression. We performed multilevel linear regression analysis. RESULTS: We included 1629 participants in the analyses. The average EQ-5D utility scores for the five health states were 0.70 (95% CI 0.67-0.73) for remission, 0.62 (95% CI 0.58-0.65) for minor depression, 0.57 (95% CI 0.54-0.61) for mild depression, 0.52 (95%CI 0.49-0.56) for moderate depression, and 0.39 (95% CI 0.35-0.43) for severe depression. In comparison with the EQ-5D, the utility scores based on the SF-6D were similar for remission (EQ-5D = 0.70 vs. SF-6D = 0.69), but higher for severe depression (EQ-5D = 0.39 vs. SF-6D = 0.55). CONCLUSIONS: We observed statistically significant differences in utility scores between depression health states. Individuals with less severe depressive symptoms had on average statistically significant higher utility scores than individuals suffering from more severe depressive symptomatology. In the present study, EQ-5D had a larger range of values as compared to SF-6D.

Kolovos, S., et al. (2018). "Cost effectiveness of guided Internet-based interventions for depression in comparison with control conditions: An individual-participant data meta-analysis." Depress Anxiety 35(3): 209-219.
	BACKGROUND: There is limited evidence on the cost effectiveness of Internet-based treatments for depression. The aim was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of guided Internet-based interventions for depression compared to controls. METHODS: Individual-participant data from five randomized controlled trials (RCT), including 1,426 participants, were combined. Cost-effectiveness analyses were conducted at 8 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months follow-up. RESULTS: The guided Internet-based interventions were more costly than the controls, but not statistically significant (12 months mean difference = euro406, 95% CI: - 611 to 1,444). The mean differences in clinical effects were not statistically significant (12 months mean difference = 1.75, 95% CI: - .09 to 3.60 in Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale [CES-D] score, .06, 95% CI: - .02 to .13 in response rate, and .00, 95% CI: - .03 to .03 in quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]). Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves indicated that high investments are needed to reach an acceptable probability that the intervention is cost effective compared to control for CES-D and response to treatment (e.g., at 12-month follow-up the probability of being cost effective was .95 at a ceiling ratio of 2,000 euro/point of improvement in CES-D score). For QALYs, the intervention's probability of being cost effective compared to control was low at the commonly accepted willingness-to-pay threshold (e.g., at 12-month follow-up the probability was .29 and. 31 at a ceiling ratio of 24,000 and 35,000 euro/QALY, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: Based on the present findings, guided Internet-based interventions for depression are not considered cost effective compared to controls. However, only a minority of RCTs investigating the clinical effectiveness of guided Internet-based interventions also assessed cost effectiveness and were included in this individual-participant data meta-analysis.

Kraaijpoel, N., et al. (2018). "Clinical Impact and Course of Anticoagulant-Related Major Bleeding in Cancer Patients." Thromb Haemost 118(1): 174-181.
	Cancer patients with venous thromboembolism (VTE) have a two- to six-fold increased risk of anticoagulant-related major bleeding events compared with VTE patients without cancer. It is unknown whether major bleeding events are more severe in cancer patients than in those without cancer. Individual patient data from four randomized phase III trials that compared factor Xa inhibitors and vitamin K antagonists for the treatment of VTE were used to compare the severity of major bleeding events in patients with and without cancer. Using predefined criteria, the severity of the clinical presentation and course of major bleeding events were classified into four categories of increasing severity. A one-stage meta-analysis was used to evaluate the effect of cancer on the severity of the clinical presentation and course by estimating crude odds ratios (ORs) and ORs adjusted for age, sex and anticoagulant type with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). The study group comprised 290 patients with major bleeding, of whom 50 (17%) had cancer. The clinical presentation was judged to be severe (category 3 or 4) in 38% of patients with cancer and 44% of patients without cancer (adjusted OR, 0.90; 95% CI, 0.47-1.72). The clinical course was found to be severe in 20 and 25% of patients with and without cancer, respectively (adjusted OR, 0.75; 95% CI, 0.35-1.61). The present study suggests that the clinical presentation and course of anticoagulant-related major bleeding events are not more severe in cancer patients than in patients without cancer. This may be reassuring for physicians who treat cancer patients with anticoagulant-related bleeding.

Kuhr, K., et al. (2016). "First-line therapy for non-transplant eligible patients with multiple myeloma: direct and adjusted indirect comparison of treatment regimens on the existing market in Germany." Eur J Clin Pharmacol 72(3): 257-265.
	OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to compare approved first-line therapies for patients with multiple myeloma. METHODS: A systematic literature search for phase III randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing first-line chemotherapies approved in Germany and recommended by guidelines at the time of study design was conducted. Random-effects meta-analysis (MA) was used for direct and the Bucher method for adjusted indirect treatment comparison. RESULTS: One RCT comparing melphalan and prednisone plus bortezomib (VMP) vs. melphalan and prednisone (MP) and six RCTs comparing MP plus thalidomide (MPT) vs. MP were analysed. For MPT vs. MP, an individual patient data (IPD) MA was used for sensitivity analyses. VMP and MPT were superior to MP regarding efficacy endpoints (VMP vs. MP, overall survival (OS): hazard ratio (HR) 0.70, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.57-0.86; progression-free survival (PFS): HR 0.56, 0.39-0.79; complete response (CR), risk-ratio (RR) for non-response: 0.70, 0.65-0.75; MPT vs. MP, OS: HR 0.83, 0.66-1.03; PFS: HR 0.67, 0.56-0.81; CR, RR for non-response 0.92, 0.88-0.95); but had a higher risk of developing any grade 3-4 adverse events (AEs) (VMP vs. MP: RR 1.13, 1.06-1.20; MPT vs. MP: RR 2.06, 1.43-2.98). The indirect comparison of VMP vs. MPT via MP showed a statistically not significant advantage for VMP regarding survival outcomes (OS: HR 0.85, 0.63-1.14; PFS: HR 0.83, 0.56-1.23) and a significant advantage regarding CR (RR for non-response 0.76, 0.70-0.83) and AEs (RR 0.55, 0.38-0.80). Treatment comparisons using results of IPD MA yielded similar effect sizes. CONCLUSIONS: VMP and MPT seem more effective than MP, VMP was superior to MPT regarding response criteria and AEs. Our results may best be confirmed by a head-to-head trial of VMP vs. MPT.

Kuryan, J., et al. (2017). "Laser-assisted subepithelial keratectomy (LASEK) versus laser-assisted in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK) for correcting myopia." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2: Cd011080.
	BACKGROUND: Near-sightedness, or myopia, is a condition in which light rays entering the eye along the visual axis focus in front of the retina, resulting in blurred vision. Myopia can be treated with spectacles, contact lenses, or refractive surgery. Options for refractive surgery include laser-assisted subepithelial keratectomy (LASEK) and laser-assisted in-situ keratomileusis (LASIK). Both procedures utilize a laser to shape the corneal tissue (front of the eye) to correct refractive error, and both create flaps before laser treatment of corneal stromal tissue. Whereas the flap in LASEK is more superficial and epithelial, in LASIK it is thicker and also includes some anterior stromal tissue. LASEK is considered a surface ablation procedure, much like its predecessor, photorefractive keratectomy (PRK). LASEK was developed as an alternative to PRK to address the issue of pain associated with epithelial debridement used for PRK. Assessing the relative benefits and risks/side effects of LASEK and LASIK warrants a systematic review. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of LASEK versus LASIK for correcting myopia. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register (2016, Issue 10); MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 24 October 2016); Embase.com (1947 to 24 October 2016); PubMed (1948 to 24 October 2016); LILACS (Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature Database; 1982 to 24 October 2016); the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled-trials.com), last searched 20 June 2014; ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov); searched 24 October 2016; and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en); searched 24 October 2016. We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered only randomized controlled trials (RCTs) for the purposes of this review. Eligible RCTs were those in which myopic participants were assigned randomly to receive either LASEK or LASIK in one or both eyes. We also included paired-eye studies in which investigators randomly selected which of the participant's eyes would receive LASEK or LASIK and assigned the other eye to the other procedure. Participants were men or women between the ages of 18 and 60 years with myopia up to 12 diopters (D) and/or myopic astigmatism of severity up to 3 D, who did not have a history of prior refractive surgery. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened all reports and assessed the risk of bias in trials included in this review. We extracted data and summarized findings using risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes. In the absence of clinical and methodological heterogeneity across trials, we used a random-effects model to calculate summary effect estimates. We used a fixed-effect model when including fewer than three trials in a meta-analysis. When clinical, methodological, or statistical heterogeneity was observed across trials, we reported our findings in a narrative synthesis. MAIN RESULTS: We identified four eligible trials with 538 eyes of 392 participants for the review, but only three trials (154 participants) provided outcome data for analysis. We found no ongoing trials. Two of four trials were from China, one trial was from Turkey, and the location of one trial was not reported. The risk of bias for most domains was unclear due to poor reporting of trial methods; no trial had a protocol or trial registry record. Three trials enrolled participants with mild to moderate myopia (less than -6.50 D); one trial included only participants with severe myopia (more than -6.00 D).The evidence showed uncertainty in whether there is a difference between LASEK and LASIK in uncorrected visual acuity (UCVA) at 12 months, the primary outcome in our review. The RR and 95% confidence interval (CI) at 12 months after surgery was 0.96 (95% CI 0.82 to 1.13) for UCVA of 20/20 or better and 0.90 (95% CI 0.67 to 1.21) for UCVA of 20/40 or better based on data from one trial with 57 eyes (very low-certainty evidence). People receiving LASEK were less likely to achieve a refractive error within 0.5 diopters of the target at 12 months follow-up (RR 0.69, 95% CI 0.48 to 0.99; 57 eyes; very low-certainty evidence). One trial reported mild corneal haze at six months in one eye in the LASEK group and none in the LASIK group (RR 2.11, 95% CI 0.57 to 7.82; 76 eyes; very low-certainty evidence). None of the included trials reported postoperative pain score or loss of visual acuity, spherical equivalent of the refractive error, or quality of life at 12 months.Refractive regression, an adverse event, was reported only in the LASEK group (8 of 37 eyes) compared with none of 39 eyes in the LASIK group in one trial (low-certainty evidence). Other adverse events, such as corneal flap striae and refractive over-correction, were reported only in the LASIK group (5 of 39 eyes) compared with none of 37 eyes in the LASEK group in one trial (low-certainty evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Overall, from the available RCTs, there is uncertainty in how LASEK compares with LASIK in achieving better refractive and visual results in mildly to moderately myopic participants. Large, well-designed RCTs would be required to estimate the magnitude of any difference in efficacy or adverse effects between LASEK and LASIK for treating myopia or myopic astigmatism.

Kwan, S. W., et al. (2018). "Cost-Effectiveness of Transjugular Intrahepatic Portosystemic Shunt versus Large-Volume Paracentesis in Refractory Ascites: Results of a Markov Model Incorporating Individual Patient-Level Meta-Analysis and Nationally Representative Cost Data." J Vasc Interv Radiol 29(12): 1705-1712.
	PURPOSE: To compare relative cost-effectiveness of serial large-volume paracentesis (LVP) and transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) creation for treatment of refractory ascites. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decisional Markov model was developed to estimate payer cost and quality-adjusted life-ears (QALYs) associated with LVP and TIPS treatment strategies for cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites. Survival estimates were derived from an individual patient-level meta-analysis of prospective randomized clinical trials. Health utilities for potential health states were derived from a prospective study of patients with cirrhosis. Cost data were derived from national representative claims databases (MarketScan and Medicare) and included reimbursement amounts for relevant procedures, hospitalizations, and outpatient pharmaceutical costs. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed. RESULTS: LVP resulted in 1.72 QALYs gained at a cost of $41,391, whereas TIPS resulted in 2.76 QALYs gained at a cost of $100,538. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of TIPS versus LVP was $57,003/QALY. At a willingness-to-pay ratio of $100,000/QALY, TIPS has a 62% probability of being acceptable compared with LVP. CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that TIPS should be considered cost-effective in a country that places a relatively high value on health improvements but less so in countries with lower levels of health care resources.

Kwon, C. Y., et al. (2018). "Herbal medicine Sihogayonggolmoryeo-tang or Chai-Hu-Jia-Long-Gu-Mu-Li-Tang for the treatment of post-stroke depression: A protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis." Medicine (Baltimore) 97(38): e12384.
	INTRODUCTION: This systematic review protocol describes the methods that will be used to evaluate the efficacy and safety of herbal medicine Sihogayonggolmoryeo-tang (SGYMT) or Chai-Hu-Jia-Long-Gu-Mu-Li-Tang for the treatment of post-stroke depression. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The following electronic databases will be searched up to July 2018 without language or publication status restrictions: MEDLINE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), EMBASE, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED), Cumulative Index to Nursing, and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), and PsycARTICLES. We will also search Korean and Chinese databases. Any clinical randomized controlled trials related to SGYMT treatment for post-stroke depression will be included. Changes in the degree of depression and adverse events will be assessed as primary outcomes. The total effective rate and changes in neurological function, activities of daily living, and quality of life will be evaluated as secondary outcomes. Study selection, data extraction, assessment of study quality, and evaluation of the quality of evidence for the main findings will be performed independently by 2 researchers. The data synthesis and analysis will be performed using RevMan version 5.3. The results will be expressed as a risk ratio for dichotomous data and as the mean difference or standardized mean difference for continuous data. Data will be synthesized by either a fixed-effects or random-effects model according to a heterogeneity test or the number of studies included in the meta-analysis. The methodological quality of the included studies will be evaluated using the Cochrane Collaboration's risk of bias tool. The quality of evidence for each main outcome will be evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required because individual patient data are not included. The findings of this systematic review will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication or conference presentations. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018102939.

Kwon, C. Y., et al. (2019). "Acupotomy for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis: A protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(3): e14160.
	INTRODUCTION: This systematic review protocol describes the methods that will be used to evaluate the efficacy and safety of acupotomy for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The following electronic databases will be searched until December 2018 without language or publication status restrictions: five English databases, that is Medline, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), EMBASE, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED), and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL); three Korean databases, that is Oriental Medicine Advanced Searching Integrated System (OASIS), Research Information Service System (RISS), and Korea Citation Index (KCI); and three Chinese databases, that is China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Wanfang Data, and VIP. Any clinical, randomized controlled trials using acupotomy for lumbar spinal stenosis treatment will be included. Changes in the degrees of pain and function will be assessed as primary outcomes. The total effective rate, changes in quality of life, adverse events, and amount of rescue medication used will be evaluated as secondary outcomes. Two independent researchers will perform study selection, data extraction, and risk of bias assessment. If applicable, a meta-analysis will be performed using RevMan version 5.3, with the results expressed as risk ratios or mean differences with 95% confidence intervals. According to a heterogeneity test or the number of studies included, fixed effects or random effects model will be used. The risk of bias tool from the Cochrane group will be used to evaluate the methodological quality of the included studies. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required because individual patient data will not be included in this study. The findings of this systematic review will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication or conference presentations. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018116567.

Lamelas, P., et al. (2017). "Effect of Body Mass Index on Clinical Events After Acute Coronary Syndromes." Am J Cardiol 120(9): 1453-1459.
	The association between body mass index (BMI) and major clinical events after acute coronary syndrome (ACS) remains controversial. We investigated the impact of BMI on major clinical events after ACS in a large individual patient data meta-analysis. Data on 81,553 patients from 45 different countries with ACS enrolled in 8 large randomized clinical trials were included, followed up for a median of 171 days. The mean age was 63.4 +/- 11.7, 70% were male, and the mean BMI was 27.3 +/- 4.7 kg/m(2). Compared with upper-normal-weight participants (BMI 21.75 to 24.9 kg/m(2), reference category), underweight participants (<18.5 kg/m(2)) had an increased risk of death (hazard ratio [HR] 1.35, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.10 to 1.66, p = 0.004). Both overweight subcategories, BMI 25 to 27.5 kg/m(2) (HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.75 to 0.89, p <0.001) and BMI 27.5 to 29.9 kg/m(2) (HR 0.84, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.92, p <0.001), and type I obesity (30 to 34.9, HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.89, p <0.001) had a significantly lower mortality. Type II and III obesities were not significantly associated with mortality. Mortality was lowest at a BMI of 30.9 kg/m(2). Compared with normal-weight patients, overweight and obese categories were related with a significantly lower risk of bleeding and refractory ischemia. Overweight patients had a lower risk of myocardial infarction, heart failure hospitalizations, and heart failure-related deaths. There were no associations between BMI and revascularization rates or stroke. In conclusion, underweight and normal-weight patients were associated with an increased mortality risk, bleeding, ischemia, and heart failure compared with those with higher BMI after ACS.

Le Cleach, L., et al. (2016). "Research Techniques Made Simple: Workflow for Searching Databases to Reduce Evidence Selection Bias in Systematic Reviews." J Invest Dermatol 136(12): e125-e129.
	Clinical trials and basic science studies without statistically significant results are less likely to be published than studies with statistically significant results. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses that omit unpublished data are at high risk of distorted conclusions. Here, we describe methods to search beyond bibliographical databases to reduce evidence selection bias in systematic reviews. Unpublished studies may be identified by searching conference proceedings. Moreover, clinical trial registries-databases of planned and ongoing trials-and regulatory agency websites such as the European Medicine Agency (EMA) and the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may provide summaries of efficacy and safety data. Primary and secondary outcomes are prespecified in trial registries, thus allowing the assessment of outcome reporting bias by comparison with the trial report. The sources of trial data and documents are still evolving, with ongoing initiatives promoting broader access to clinical study reports and individual patient data. There is currently no established methodology to ensure that the multiple sources of information are incorporated. Nonetheless, systematic reviews must adapt to these improvements and cover the new sources in their search strategies.

Leahy, J. and C. Walsh (2019). "Assessing the impact of a matching-adjusted indirect comparison in a Bayesian network meta-analysis." Res Synth Methods.
	If IPD is available for some or all trials in a network meta-analysis (NMA), then incorporating this IPD into an NMA is routinely considered to be preferable. However, the situation often arises where a researcher has IPD for trials concerning a particular treatment (eg, from a sponsor) but none for other trials. Therefore, one can reweight the IPD so that the covariate characteristics in the IPD trials match that of the aggregate data (AgD) trials, using a matching-adjusted indirect comparison (MAIC). We assess the impact of using the reweighted aggregated data, obtained by the MAIC, in a Bayesian NMA for a connected treatment network. We apply this method to a network of multiple myeloma treatments in newly diagnosed patients (ndMM), where the outcome is progression free survival. We investigate the reliability of the methods and results through a simulation study. The ndMM network consists of three IPD studies comparing lenalidomide to placebo (Len-Placebo), one AgD study comparing Len-Placebo, and one AgD study comparing thalidomide to placebo (Thal-Placebo). We therefore investigate two options of weighting the covariates: (a) All three studies are weighted separately to match the AgD Thal-Placebo trial. (b) Patients are weighted across all three IPD studies to match the AgD Thal-Placebo trial, but the NMA considers each trial separately. We observe limited benefit to MAIC in the full network population. While MAIC can be beneficial as a sensitivity analysis to confirm results across patient populations, we advise that MAIC is used and interpreted with caution.

Lee, B., et al. (2019). "Herbal medicine for acute management and rehabilitation of traumatic brain injury: A protocol for a systematic review." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(3): e14145.
	BACKGROUND: This systematic review protocol describes the methods that will be used to evaluate the efficacy and safety of herbal medicine in treating traumatic brain injury. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: The following electronic databases will be searched up to December 2018 without language or publication status restrictions: Medline, EMBASE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature. We will also search Korean, Chinese, and Japanese databases. Any randomized controlled trials related to herbal medicine for traumatic brain injury will be included. The functional outcome, consciousness state, morbidity, and mortality will be assessed as primary outcomes. The quality of life, adverse events, and total effective rate will be evaluated as secondary outcomes. Two researchers will independently perform the study selection, data extraction, assessment of study quality, and evaluation of the quality of evidence for the main findings. Data synthesis and analysis will be performed using RevMan version 5.3. The results will be expressed as a risk ratio for the binary outcome and as the mean difference or standardized mean difference for a continuous outcome. We will synthesize the data by either fixed effects or random effects model according to a heterogeneity test or the number of studies included in the meta-analysis. The methodological quality of the included studies will be evaluated using the Cochrane Collaboration's risk of bias tool. The quality of evidence for each main outcome will be evaluated using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required because individual patient data are not included. The findings of this systematic review will be disseminated through a peer-reviewed publication or conference presentations. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018116559.

Lee, G. E., et al. (2019). "Non-pharmacological interventions for patients with dementia: A protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(38): e17279.
	BACKGROUND: This protocol for a systematic review describes the methods that will be used to evaluate the efficacy and safety of non-pharmacological interventions for patients with dementia. METHODS: We will search ALOIS, the specialized register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group (CDCIG), without language or publication status restrictions. Additional separate searches will be run in many of the above six databases to ensure the most up-to-date results are retrieved.The study selection and data extraction will be performed independently by two authors and only randomized controlled trials will be included. The risk of bias will be assessed independently by two authors following the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. We will use RevMan software and random-effects models to assess the heterogeneity and data synthesis.If any plan for documenting important protocol amendments changes, the researchers will make a revision agreement and then register the modification on PROSPERO. CONCLUSION: Through this systematic review, a comprehensive understanding of current non-pharmacological interventions on dementia will be available. Meanwhile, it will provide basic evidence for further clinical research. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required because no individual patient's data are included in this paper. This study will be disseminated through conference presentation. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019136435.

Lees, K. R. and P. Khatri (2016). "Stroke Treatment Academic Industry Roundtable Recommendations for Individual Data Pooling Analyses in Stroke." Stroke 47(8): 2154-2159.
	Pooled analysis of individual patient data from stroke trials can deliver more precise estimates of treatment effect, enhance power to examine prespecified subgroups, and facilitate exploration of treatment-modifying influences. Analysis plans should be declared, and preferably published, before trial results are known. For pooling trials that used diverse analytic approaches, an ordinal analysis is favored, with justification for considering deaths and severe disability jointly. Because trial pooling is an incremental process, analyses should follow a sequential approach, with statistical adjustment for iterations. Updated analyses should be published when revised conclusions have a clinical implication. However, caution is recommended in declaring pooled findings that may prejudice ongoing trials, unless clinical implications are compelling. All contributing trial teams should contribute to leadership, data verification, and authorship of pooled analyses. Development work is needed to enable reliable inferences to be drawn about individual drug or device effects that contribute to a pooled analysis, versus a class effect, if the treatment strategy combines >/=2 such drugs or devices. Despite the practical challenges, pooled analyses are powerful and essential tools in interpreting clinical trial findings and advancing clinical care.

Legha, A., et al. (2018). "Individual participant data meta-analysis of continuous outcomes: A comparison of approaches for specifying and estimating one-stage models." Stat Med 37(29): 4404-4420.
	One-stage individual participant data meta-analysis models should account for within-trial clustering, but it is currently debated how to do this. For continuous outcomes modeled using a linear regression framework, two competing approaches are a stratified intercept or a random intercept. The stratified approach involves estimating a separate intercept term for each trial, whereas the random intercept approach assumes that trial intercepts are drawn from a normal distribution. Here, through an extensive simulation study for continuous outcomes, we evaluate the impact of using the stratified and random intercept approaches on statistical properties of the summary treatment effect estimate. Further aims are to compare (i) competing estimation options for the one-stage models, including maximum likelihood and restricted maximum likelihood, and (ii) competing options for deriving confidence intervals (CI) for the summary treatment effect, including the standard normal-based 95% CI, and more conservative approaches of Kenward-Roger and Satterthwaite, which inflate CIs to account for uncertainty in variance estimates. The findings reveal that, for an individual participant data meta-analysis of randomized trials with a 1:1 treatment:control allocation ratio and heterogeneity in the treatment effect, (i) bias and coverage of the summary treatment effect estimate are very similar when using stratified or random intercept models with restricted maximum likelihood, and thus either approach could be taken in practice, (ii) CIs are generally best derived using either a Kenward-Roger or Satterthwaite correction, although occasionally overly conservative, and (iii) if maximum likelihood is required, a random intercept performs better than a stratified intercept model. An illustrative example is provided.

Leininger, B., et al. (2018). "Cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation, exercise, and self-management for spinal pain using an individual participant data meta-analysis approach: a study protocol." Chiropr Man Therap 26: 46.
	Background: Spinal pain is a common and disabling condition with considerable socioeconomic burden. Spine pain management in the United States has gathered increased scrutiny amidst concerns of overutilization of costly and potentially harmful interventions and diagnostic tests. Conservative interventions such as spinal manipulation, exercise and self-management may provide value for the care of spinal pain, but little is known regarding the cost-effectiveness of these interventions in the U.S. Our primary objective for this project is to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation, exercise therapy, and self-management for spinal pain using an individual patient data meta-analysis approach. Methods/design: We will estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of spinal manipulation, exercise therapy, and self-management using cost and clinical outcome data collected in eight randomized clinical trials performed in the U.S. Cost-effectiveness will be assessed from both societal and healthcare perspectives using QALYs, pain intensity, and disability as effectiveness measures. The eight randomized clinical trials used similar methods and included different combinations of spinal manipulation, exercise therapy, or self-management for spinal pain. They also collected similar clinical outcome, healthcare utilization, and work productivity data. A two-stage approach to individual patient data meta-analysis will be conducted. Discussion: This project capitalizes on a unique opportunity to combine clinical and economic data collected in a several clinical trials that used similar methods. The findings will provide important information on the value of spinal manipulation, exercise therapy, and self-management for spinal pain management in the U.S.

Levie, D., et al. (2019). "Association of Maternal Iodine Status With Child IQ: A Meta-Analysis of Individual Participant Data." J Clin Endocrinol Metab 104(12): 5957-5967.
	CONTEXT: Although the consequences of severe iodine deficiency are beyond doubt, the effects of mild to moderate iodine deficiency in pregnancy on child neurodevelopment are less well established. OBJECTIVE: To study the association between maternal iodine status during pregnancy and child IQ and identify vulnerable time windows of exposure to suboptimal iodine availability. DESIGN: Meta-analysis of individual participant data from three prospective population-based birth cohorts: Generation R (Netherlands), INMA (Spain), and ALSPAC (United Kingdom); pregnant women were enrolled between 2002 and 2006, 2003 and 2008, and 1990 and 1992, respectively. SETTING: General community. PARTICIPANTS: 6180 mother-child pairs with measures of urinary iodine and creatinine concentrations in pregnancy and child IQ. Exclusion criteria were multiple pregnancies, fertility treatment, medication affecting the thyroid, and preexisting thyroid disease. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Child nonverbal and verbal IQ assessed at 1.5 to 8 years of age. RESULTS: There was a positive curvilinear association of urinary iodine/creatinine ratio (UI/Creat) with mean verbal IQ only. UI/Creat <150 microg/g was not associated with lower nonverbal IQ (-0.6 point; 95% CI: -1.7 to 0.4 points; P = 0.246) or lower verbal IQ (-0.6 point; 95% CI: -1.3 to 0.1 points; P = 0.082). Stratified analyses showed that the association of UI/Creat with verbal IQ was only present up to 14 weeks of gestation. CONCLUSIONS: Fetal brain development is vulnerable to mild to moderate iodine deficiency, particularly in the first trimester. Our results show that potential randomized controlled trials investigating the effect of iodine supplementation in women with mild to moderate iodine deficiency on child neurodevelopment should begin supplementation not later than the first trimester.

Lewis, J., et al. (2019). "Aspirin Use for Primary Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease in Older Patients: A Review of Clinical Guidelines and Updated Evidence." Sr Care Pharm 34(9): 580-594.
	OBJECTIVE: To provide an up-to-date review of current guidelines, previous trials, and new trials regarding aspirin use in primary prevention of cardiovascular (CV) disease in the elderly population. DATA SOURCES: A PubMed search of articles published through April 2019 was performed using a combination of the following words: aspirin, bleeding, cardiovascular, elderly, hemorrhage, myocardial infarction, primary prevention, stroke. STUDY SELECTION/DATA EXTRACTION: Relevant randomized controlled trials, meta-analyses, and guidelines were assessed for the use of aspirin in primary prevention of CV disease in older patients. References from the above literature were also evaluated. Articles were selected for inclusion based on relevance to the topic, detailed methods, and complete results. DATA SYNTHESIS: The role of aspirin for primary prevention of CV disease in older adults is not well defined. As a result, the guideline recommendations for the use of aspirin in this setting are inconsistent. In 2018, the ARRIVE, ASCEND, and ASPREE studies were published. These studies tried to address some of the inconsistencies regarding the use of aspirin in primary prevention of CV disease. This article reviews the current recommendations along with previous and recent studies for aspirin use for primary prevention in older adults. CONCLUSION: The role of aspirin for primary prevention of CV disease in older adults should be individualized based on patient's risk factors, including risk of CV disease and likelihood of bleeding. Updated evidence provides more guidance regarding which patient populations will benefit from therapy.

Lim, Y. J., et al. (2019). "Adjuvant chemotherapy in rectal cancer patients who achieved a pathological complete response after preoperative chemoradiotherapy: a systematic review and meta-analysis." Sci Rep 9(1): 10008.
	This study evaluated the prognostic impact of ACT in patients who achieved a pathological complete response (pCR). Articles published from January 1990 to September 2018 were searched in EMBASE, PubMed, Ovid, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library. Hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of overall survival (OS) were extracted. Thirteen observational studies were included. There were four National Cancer Database studies with overlapping study periods, thus individual pooled analyses of four different datasets were conducted (n = 3,182, 3,330, 3,575, and 4,739 for pooled analysis sets including Dossa et al., Polanco et al., Xu et al., and Shahab et al., respectively). Although a trend toward improved OS with ACT was observed, statistical significance was not proven (P = 0.09, P = 0.03, P = 0.12, and P = 0.10, respectively). When we performed a stratified analysis comparing the results from single institution and multicenter studies, there was no significant prognostic benefit of ACT. Publication bias was not observed. Routine use of ACT in patients with a pCR could not be warranted from the present meta-analysis. Further study of individual patient data from randomized trials is needed to clarify the role of ACT.

Liu, D., et al. (2015). "Multivariate Meta-Analysis of Heterogeneous Studies Using Only Summary Statistics: Efficiency and Robustness." J Am Stat Assoc 110(509): 326-340.
	Meta-analysis has been widely used to synthesize evidence from multiple studies for common hypotheses or parameters of interest. However, it has not yet been fully developed for incorporating heterogeneous studies, which arise often in applications due to different study designs, populations or outcomes. For heterogeneous studies, the parameter of interest may not be estimable for certain studies, and in such a case, these studies are typically excluded from conventional meta-analysis. The exclusion of part of the studies can lead to a non-negligible loss of information. This paper introduces a metaanalysis for heterogeneous studies by combining the confidence density functions derived from the summary statistics of individual studies, hence referred to as the CD approach. It includes all the studies in the analysis and makes use of all information, direct as well as indirect. Under a general likelihood inference framework, this new approach is shown to have several desirable properties, including: i) it is asymptotically as efficient as the maximum likelihood approach using individual participant data (IPD) from all studies; ii) unlike the IPD analysis, it suffices to use summary statistics to carry out the CD approach. Individual-level data are not required; and iii) it is robust against misspecification of the working covariance structure of the parameter estimates. Besides its own theoretical significance, the last property also substantially broadens the applicability of the CD approach. All the properties of the CD approach are further confirmed by data simulated from a randomized clinical trials setting as well as by real data on aircraft landing performance. Overall, one obtains an unifying approach for combining summary statistics, subsuming many of the existing meta-analysis methods as special cases.

Liu, L., et al. (2019). "Bilateral total knee arthroplasty: Simultaneous or staged? A systematic review and meta-analysis." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(22): e15931.
	BACKGROUND: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is one of the most successful orthopedic surgeries performed in recent decades. However, controversies still exist between conducting simultaneous or staged bilateral TKA. The objective of this study is to conduct a systematic review assessing the clinical outcome associated with simultaneous bilateral and staged bilateral total knee arthroplasty (BTKA). METHODS: A search was applied to CNKI, Embase, Medline, and Cochrane central database (January 2000-July 2018). All studies that compared simultaneous bilateral TKA (simBTKA) with staged bilateral TKA (staBTKA) without language restriction were reviewed, and qualities of included studies were assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale. Data were pooled and a meta-analysis completed. RESULTS: The 18 studies were identified to be eligible. The 18 comparative studies published from 2001 to 2018, covered 73617 participants in the simBTKA group and 61838 in the staBTKA group, respectively. Results of meta-analyses indicated that simBTKA showed a lower risk of deep infection and respiratory complications, but increased mortality, pulmonary embolism (PE), and deep-vein thrombosis (DVT) compared with staBTKA. There were no significant differences in revision, superficial infection, arthrofibrosis, cardiac complications, neurological complications and urinary complications between procedures. CONCLUSIONS: Since there are risks and benefits to both procedures, these potential complications must be interpreted in light of each individual patient's needs and concerns. Further research must be conducted, in the form of a randomized clinical trial, to evaluate the outcomes mentioned in this review.

Liu, X. D., et al. (2019). "Comparison Between Levodopa-Carbidopa Intestinal Gel Infusion and Subthalamic Nucleus Deep-Brain Stimulation for Advanced Parkinson's Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." Front Neurol 10: 934.
	Background: Currently, some advanced treatments such as Levodopa-Carbidopa intestinal gel infusion (LCIG), deep-brain stimulation (DBS), and subcutaneous apomorphine infusion have become alternative strategies for advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). However, which treatment is better for individual patients remains unclear. This review aims to compare therapeutic effects of motor and/or non-motor symptoms of advanced PD patients between LCIG and DBS. Methods: We manually searched electronic databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Library) and reference lists of included articles published until April 04, 2019 using related terms, without language restriction. We included case-controlled cohort studies and randomized-controlled trials, which directly compared differences between LCIG and DBS. The Newcastle-Ottawa scale (NOS), proposed by the Cochrane Collaboration, was utilized to assess the quality of the included studies. Two investigators independently extracted data from each trial. Pooled standard-mean differences (SMDs) and relative risks (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated by meta-analysis. Outcomes were grouped according to the part III and part IV of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and adverse events. We also descriptively reviewed some data, which were unavailable for statistical analysis. Results: This review included five cohort trials of 257 patients for meta-analysis. There were no significant differences between LCIG and subthalamic nucleus deep-brain stimulation (STN-DBS) on UPDRS-III and adverse events comparisons: UPDRS-III (pooled SMDs = 0.200, 95% CI: -0.126-0.527, P = 0.230), total adverse events (pooled RRs = 1.279, 95% CI: 0.983-1.664, P = 0.067), serious adverse events (pooled RRs = 1.539, 95% CI: 0.664-3.566, P = 0.315). Notably, the improvement of UPDRS-IV was more significant in STN-DBS groups: pooled SMDs = 0.857, 95% CI: 0.130-1.584, P = 0.021. However, the heterogeneity was moderate for UPDRS-IV (I (2) = 73.8%). Conclusion: LCIG has comparable effects to STN-DBS on motor function for advanced PD, with acceptable tolerability. More large, well-designed trials are needed to assess the comparability of LCIG and STN-DBS in the future.

Long, H. D., et al. (2016). "Risk of Congestive Heart Failure in Early Breast Cancer Patients Undergoing Adjuvant Treatment With Trastuzumab: A Meta-Analysis." Oncologist 21(5): 547-554.
	BACKGROUND: The use of trastuzumab has proven to be a successful strategy in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer; however, it is associated with an increased risk of cardiac dysfunction. We performed an up-to-date, comprehensive meta-analysis to clarify the risk of congestive heart failure (CHF) in patients with early breast cancer receiving different durations of adjuvant trastuzumab with the longest-term follow-up. METHODS: Eligible studies included randomized control trials of HER2-positive early breast cancer patients with or without trastuzumab in adjuvant chemotherapy. Adequate reporting of CHF data were required for inclusion. Statistical analyses were conducted to calculate the overall incidence, relative risk (RR), and 95% confidence interval (CI) by use of a fixed-effects model. RESULTS: Six randomized control trials including 18,111 patients were identified. The overall incidence of high-grade CHF in patients treated with trastuzumab versus placebo was 1.44% (95% CI, 0.79%-2.64%) and the RR was 3.19 (95% CI, 2.03-5.02; p < .00001). In subgroup analysis, the difference in CHF incidence failed to achieve significance. The RR for 8 mg/kg trastuzumab (high dose) was greater than that for 4 mg/kg (low dose) (RR, 6.79, 95% CI, 2.03-22.72, p = .0001; versus RR, 2.64; 95% CI, 1.61-4.32; p = .002). Additionally, higher RRs were observed for patients receiving trastuzumab for 1 year (RR, 3.29; 95% CI, 2.07-5.25) and 2 years (RR, 9.54; 95%CI, 2.19-41.43), but not 9 weeks (RR, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.05-5.49) compared with control groups. No evidence of publication bias was observed. CONCLUSION: Adjuvant trastuzumab therapy was strongly associated with an increased risk of significant CHF in patients with early breast cancer, particularly in 2-year use. IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: This comprehensive meta-analysis evaluated the risk of congestive heart failure with a usage profile of adjuvant trastuzumab in patients with early breast cancer. Before initiating treatment with trastuzumab, a risk-benefit analysis for individual patients should be critically evaluated, considering that the prognosis is closely related to drug dose and duration of use. Cardiac function should be monitored throughout the treatment period and also during follow-up. Thus, early identification of trastuzumab-related cardiac dysfunction can allow effective medical intervention, elimination of symptoms, recovery of function, and continuation of trastuzumab therapy.

Lowe, R. N., et al. (2015). "Statins for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in the elderly." Consult Pharm 30(1): 20-30.
	OBJECTIVE: The objective is to review the evidence evaluating the efficacy of statin therapy for primary prevention of cardiovascular (CV) disease in the elderly. DATA SOURCES: A literature search of MEDLINE and PubMed (1966-January 2013) using the terms HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, statin, primary prevention, elderly, and geriatrics was performed. The search was limited to clinical trials, meta-analyses, and subanalyses, including primary prevention patients. Bibliographies of selected articles were examined to identify additional clinical trials. STUDY SELECTION: Fourteen clinical trials, subanalyses, and meta-analyses were reviewed. A total of seven clinical trials and subanalyses evaluating statin therapy versus placebo in the elderly primary prevention patients with a primary endpoint of hard coronary heart disease were included. DATA EXTRACTION: Data collected from the clinical trials and subanalyses included number of elderly patients randomized, therapy, duration of follow-up, and the incidence of coronary events. DATA SYNTHESIS: The average annual rates of first CV event increases as patients age. There is strong evidence that supports the use of statins for secondary prevention; although primary prevention, specifically in the elderly, is less defined. This paper reviews the literature specifically for primary prevention, for which the results have shown a trend toward decreased first occurrence of coronary heart disease with statin therapy in elderly patients. CONCLUSION: Statin therapy should be considered as a primary prevention therapy against coronary disease for elderly patients. Evidence-based clinical benefits are seen in this patient population. However, clinical judgment and consideration of comorbidities that may impact life expectancy should be assessed to determine appropriateness for individual patients.

Lueza, B., et al. (2016). "Bias and precision of methods for estimating the difference in restricted mean survival time from an individual patient data meta-analysis." BMC Med Res Methodol 16: 37.
	BACKGROUND: The difference in restricted mean survival time ([Formula: see text]), the area between two survival curves up to time horizon [Formula: see text], is often used in cost-effectiveness analyses to estimate the treatment effect in randomized controlled trials. A challenge in individual patient data (IPD) meta-analyses is to account for the trial effect. We aimed at comparing different methods to estimate the [Formula: see text] from an IPD meta-analysis. METHODS: We compared four methods: the area between Kaplan-Meier curves (experimental vs. control arm) ignoring the trial effect (Naive Kaplan-Meier); the area between Peto curves computed at quintiles of event times (Peto-quintile); the weighted average of the areas between either trial-specific Kaplan-Meier curves (Pooled Kaplan-Meier) or trial-specific exponential curves (Pooled Exponential). In a simulation study, we varied the between-trial heterogeneity for the baseline hazard and for the treatment effect (possibly correlated), the overall treatment effect, the time horizon [Formula: see text], the number of trials and of patients, the use of fixed or DerSimonian-Laird random effects model, and the proportionality of hazards. We compared the methods in terms of bias, empirical and average standard errors. We used IPD from the Meta-Analysis of Chemotherapy in Nasopharynx Carcinoma (MAC-NPC) and its updated version MAC-NPC2 for illustration that included respectively 1,975 and 5,028 patients in 11 and 23 comparisons. RESULTS: The Naive Kaplan-Meier method was unbiased, whereas the Pooled Exponential and, to a much lesser extent, the Pooled Kaplan-Meier methods showed a bias with non-proportional hazards. The Peto-quintile method underestimated the [Formula: see text], except with non-proportional hazards at [Formula: see text]= 5 years. In the presence of treatment effect heterogeneity, all methods except the Pooled Kaplan-Meier and the Pooled Exponential with DerSimonian-Laird random effects underestimated the standard error of the [Formula: see text]. Overall, the Pooled Kaplan-Meier method with DerSimonian-Laird random effects formed the best compromise in terms of bias and variance. The [Formula: see text] estimated with the Pooled Kaplan-Meier method was 0.49 years (95% CI: [-0.06;1.03], p = 0.08) when comparing radiotherapy plus chemotherapy vs. radiotherapy alone in the MAC-NPC and 0.59 years (95% CI: [0.34;0.84], p < 0.0001) in the MAC-NPC2. CONCLUSIONS: We recommend the Pooled Kaplan-Meier method with DerSimonian-Laird random effects to estimate the difference in restricted mean survival time from an individual-patient data meta-analysis.

Lundstrom, L. H., et al. (2017). "Avoidance versus use of neuromuscular blocking agents for improving conditions during tracheal intubation or direct laryngoscopy in adults and adolescents." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 5: Cd009237.
	BACKGROUND: Tracheal intubation during induction of general anaesthesia is a vital procedure performed to secure a patient's airway. Several studies have identified difficult tracheal intubation (DTI) or failed tracheal intubation as one of the major contributors to anaesthesia-related mortality and morbidity. Use of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) to facilitate tracheal intubation is a widely accepted practice. However, because of adverse effects, NMBA may be undesirable. Cohort studies have indicated that avoiding NMBA is an independent risk factor for difficult and failed tracheal intubation. However, no systematic review of randomized trials has evaluated conditions for tracheal intubation, possible adverse effects, and postoperative discomfort. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of avoiding neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA) versus using NMBA on difficult tracheal intubation (DTI) for adults and adolescents allocated to tracheal intubation with direct laryngoscopy. To look at various outcomes, conduct subgroup and sensitivity analyses, examine the role of bias, and apply trial sequential analysis (TSA) to examine the level of available evidence for this intervention. SEARCH METHODS: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, BIOSIS, International Web of Science, LILACS, advanced Google, CINAHL, and the following trial registries: Current Controlled Trials; ClinicalTrials.gov; and www.centerwatch.com, up to January 2017. We checked the reference lists of included trials and reviews to look for unidentified trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared the effects of avoiding versus using NMBA in participants 14 years of age or older. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors extracted data independently. We conducted random-effects and fixed-effect meta-analyses and calculated risk ratios (RRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We used published data and data obtained by contacting trial authors. To minimize the risk of systematic error, we assessed the risk of bias of included trials. To reduce the risk of random errors caused by sparse data and repetitive updating of cumulative meta-analyses, we applied TSA. MAIN RESULTS: We identified 34 RCTs with 3565 participants that met our inclusion criteria. All trials reported on conditions for tracheal intubation; seven trials with 846 participants described 'events of upper airway discomfort or injury', and 13 trials with 1308 participants reported on direct laryngoscopy. All trials used a parallel design. We identified 18 dose-finding studies that included more interventions or control groups or both. All trials except three included only American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) class I and II participants, 25 trials excluded participants with anticipated DTI, and obesity or overweight was an excluding factor in 13 studies. Eighteen trials used suxamethonium, and 18 trials used non-depolarizing NMBA.Trials with an overall low risk of bias reported significantly increased risk of DTI with no use of NMBA (random-effects model) (RR 13.27, 95% CI 8.19 to 21.49; P < 0.00001; 508 participants; four trials; number needed to treat for an additional harmful outcome (NNTH) = 1.9, I(2) = 0%, D(2) = 0%, GRADE = moderate). The TSA-adjusted CI for the RR was 1.85 to 95.04. Inclusion of all trials resulted in confirmation of results and of significantly increased risk of DTI when an NMBA was avoided (random-effects model) (RR 5.00, 95% CI 3.49 to 7.15; P < 0.00001; 3565 participants; 34 trials; NNTH = 6.3, I(2) = 70%, D(2) = 82%, GRADE = low). Again the cumulative z-curve crossed the TSA monitoring boundary, demonstrating harmful effects of avoiding NMBA on the proportion of DTI with minimal risk of random error. We categorized only one trial reporting on upper airway discomfort or injury as having overall low risk of bias. Inclusion of all trials revealed significant risk of upper airway discomfort or injury when an NMBA was avoided (random-effects model) (RR 1.37, 95% CI 1.09 to 1.74; P = 0.008; 846 participants; seven trials; NNTH = 9.1, I(2) = 13%, GRADE = moderate). The TSA-adjusted CI for the RR was 1.00 to 1.85. None of these trials reported mortality. In terms of our secondary outcome 'difficult laryngoscopy', we categorized only one trial as having overall low risk of bias. All trials avoiding NMBA were significantly associated with difficult laryngoscopy (random-effects model) (RR 2.54, 95% CI 1.53 to 4.21; P = 0.0003; 1308 participants; 13 trials; NNTH = 25.6, I(2) = 0%, D(2)= 0%, GRADE = low); however, TSA showed that only 6% of the information size required to detect or reject a 20% relative risk reduction (RRR) was accrued, and the trial sequential monitoring boundary was not crossed. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: This review supports that use of an NMBA may create the best conditions for tracheal intubation and may reduce the risk of upper airway discomfort or injury following tracheal intubation. Study results were characterized by indirectness, heterogeneity, and high or uncertain risk of bias concerning our primary outcome describing difficult tracheal intubation. Therefore, we categorized the GRADE classification of quality of evidence as moderate to low. In light of defined outcomes of individual included trials, our primary outcomes may not reflect a situation that many clinicians consider to be an actual difficult tracheal intubation by which the patient's life or health may be threatened.

Ma, X. X. and A. Liu (2019). "Effectiveness of electrical stimulation combined with pelvic floor muscle training on postpartum urinary incontinence." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(10): e14762.
	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials have reported that electrical stimulation (ES) combined with pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) can be used to treat postpartum urinary incontinence (PPUI) effectively. However, no systematic review has investigated the effectiveness and safety of ES plus PFMT for the treatment of patients with PPUI. In this systematic review, we will firstly assess the effectiveness and safety of ES and PFMT for treating PPUI. METHODS: In this study, we will search the following electronic databases: Cochrane Library, Web of Science, Springer, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure from inceptions to the present without language restrictions. All eligible randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on the effectiveness of ES plus PFMT for PPUI will be included. We will also search grey literature to avoid missing any other potential qualified studies. Two authors will independently conduct the study selection, data extraction, and risk of bias assessment. A third author will be consulted to solve any disagreements between 2 authors. RevMan 5.3 Software will be used to pool the data and to carry out the meta-analysis. RESULTS: This study will provide high quality evidence of ES and PFMT for PPUI. The primary outcome includes symptoms improvement. The secondary outcomes consist of incontinence-specific quality of life, clinician's observations, and adverse effects. CONCLUSION: The findings of this study will summary up-to-dated evidence for judging whether ES combined PFMT is an effective intervention for PPUI or not. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study does not needs ethical approval, because it will not involve individual patient data. Its findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed journals. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: CRD42019122540.

Mabire, C., et al. (2016). "Effectiveness of nursing discharge planning interventions on health-related outcomes in discharged elderly inpatients: a systematic review." JBI Database System Rev Implement Rep 14(9): 217-260.
	BACKGROUND: Inadequate discharge planning for the growing elderly population poses significant challenges for health services. Effective discharge planning interventions have been examined in several studies, but little information is available on nursing's role or the specific components of these interventions. Despite the research published on the importance of discharge planning, the impact on patient's health outcomes still needs to be proven in practice. OBJECTIVES: To determine the best available evidence on the effectiveness of discharge planning interventions involving at least one nurse on health-related outcomes for elderly inpatients discharged home and to assess the relative impact of individual components of discharge planning interventions. INCLUSION CRITERIA TYPES OF PARTICIPANTS: Elderly inpatients aged 65 years or older, discharged from acute care and post-acute care rehabilitation hospitals to home. TYPES OF INTERVENTIONS: The review focused on the six keys components of Naylor's Transitional Care Model: early geriatric assessment, discharge preparation, patient or caregiver's participation, continuity of care, day of discharge assessment and post-discharge follow-up. TYPES OF STUDIES: This review considered randomized and non-randomized controlled trials, quasi-experimental studies, before and after studies, prospective and retrospective cohort studies, case-control studies and analytical cross-sectional studies. OUTCOMES: The outcomes for this review were functional ability, symptoms management, adverse outcomes, unmet needs after discharge, coping with disease, health-related quality of life (QoL), satisfaction with care, readmission rate and healthcare utilization. SEARCH STRATEGY: A systematic search was undertaken across 13 databases to retrieve published and unpublished studies in English between 2000 and 2015. METHODOLOGICAL QUALITY: Critical appraisal was undertaken by two independent reviewers using standardized critical appraisal instruments from the Joanna Briggs Institute Meta-Analysis of Statistics Assessment and Review Instrument (JBI-MAStARI). DATA EXTRACTION: Quantitative data were extracted from included studies independently by the two reviewers using the standardized data extraction tool from JBI-MAStARI. DATA SYNTHESIS: Due to the wide range of outcome measures, a comprehensive meta-analysis for all studies was not possible. However, meta-analysis was conducted for specific outcome measures, such as readmission, length of stay and QoL. RESULTS: Thirteen studies met the inclusion criteria and were included in the review. Two out of the 13 studies were pilot studies and one had a pre-post design. Included studies involved a total of 3964 participants with a median age of 77 years. Nurse discharge planning did not significantly reduce hospital readmission rate (odds ratio [OR] = 0.73, 95% confidence intervals [CIs] = 0.53-1.01, P = 0.06). The overall effect score for length of stay was significant (weighted mean difference = 0.29, P < 0.01), suggesting that discharge planning increased the length of hospitalization. The effectiveness of discharge planning did not significantly impact QoL (mental OR = 0.37, P = 0.19 and physical OR = 0.47, P = 0.15). CONCLUSION: Findings of this review suggest that nursing discharge planning for elderly inpatients discharged home increases length of stay, yet neither reduces readmission rates nor improves QoL.

MacIsaac, R. L., et al. (2015). "A collaborative sequential meta-analysis of individual patient data from randomized trials of endovascular therapy and tPA vs. tPA alone for acute ischemic stroke: ThRombEctomy And tPA (TREAT) analysis: statistical analysis plan for a sequential meta-analysis performed within the VISTA-Endovascular collaboration." Int J Stroke 10 Suppl A100: 136-144.
	RATIONALE: Endovascular treatment has been shown to restore blood flow effectively. Second-generation medical devices such as stent retrievers are now showing overwhelming efficacy in clinical trials, particularly in conjunction with intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. AIMS AND DESIGN: This statistical analysis plan utilizing a novel, sequential approach describes a prospective, individual patient data analysis of endovascular therapy in conjunction with intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator agreed upon by the Thrombectomy and Tissue Plasminogen Activator Collaborative Group. STUDY OUTCOMES: This protocol will specify the primary outcome for efficacy, as 'favorable' outcome defined by the ordinal distribution of the modified Rankin Scale measured at three-months poststroke, but with modified Rankin Scales 5 and 6 collapsed into a single category. The primary analysis will aim to answer the questions: 'what is the treatment effect of endovascular therapy with intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator compared to intravenous tissue plasminogen activator alone on full scale modified Rankin Scale at 3 months?' and 'to what extent do key patient characteristics influence the treatment effect of endovascular therapy?'. Key secondary outcomes include effect of endovascular therapy on death within 90 days; analyses of modified Rankin Scale using dichotomized methods; and effects of endovascular therapy on symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage. Several secondary analyses will be considered as well as expanding patient cohorts to intravenous recombinant tissue plasminogen activator-ineligible patients, should data allow. DISCUSSION: This collaborative meta-analysis of individual participant data from randomized trials of endovascular therapy vs. control in conjunction with intravenous thrombolysis will demonstrate the efficacy and generalizability of endovascular therapy with intravenous thrombolysis as a concomitant medication.

Mahmic-Kaknjo, M., et al. (2018). "Setting the IMPACT (IMProve Access to Clinical Trial data) Observatory baseline." Biochem Med (Zagreb) 28(1): 010201.
	Introduction: The aim of the IMPACT (IMProving Access to Clinical Trial data) Observatory is to assess the transformation of clinical trials (CT) related to the evolution of sharing of CT data. The objective of this study is to establish a baseline for monitoring CT data sharing by the Observatory. Materials and methods: In this scoping review we searched for publications that address sharing, dissemination, transparency or reuse of CT data published prior to December 31st 2000. Two authors screened titles and abstracts of 1204 records received by Medline searches and added 47 publications from direct discovery. Four researchers extracted, coded, and analyzed the predefined information from 102 selected papers. Results: We found a growing recognition of the importance of data sharing prior to 2001. However, there were numerous obstacles including the ambiguity of the concept of data sharing, the absence of specific terminology and the lack of an "open" culture. By the end of 2000, data, metadata, and evidence based medicine were defined. Data sharing, registries, databases and re-analyses of individual patient data (IPD) emerged. The use of systematic reviews and IPD meta-analysis in decision making was promoted. Most arguments for broader data sharing came from oncology, paediatrics, rare diseases, AIDS, pregnancy, perinatal medicine, and media reporting related scandals. Conclusions: Our findings indicate that the year 2000 could be used as a baseline for monitoring the evolution of CT data sharing as basic prerequisites were set in place, including greater understanding that CT data sharing is essential for decision making and the advancements of the Internet.

Malmstrom, P. U. and B. J. Trock (2016). "Re: Richard J. Sylvester, Willem Oosterlinck, Sten Holmang, et al. Systematic Review and Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis of Randomized Trials Comparing a Single Immediate Instillation of Chemotherapy After Transurethral Resection with Transurethral Resection Alone in Patients with Stage pTa-pT1 Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder: Which Patients Benefit from the Instillation? Eur Urol. In press. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2015.05.050." Eur Urol 69(1): e10-11.
	
Markman, J. D., et al. (2017). "Effects of Pregabalin in Patients with Neuropathic Pain Previously Treated with Gabapentin: A Pooled Analysis of Parallel-Group, Randomized, Placebo-controlled Clinical Trials." Pain Pract 17(6): 718-728.
	OBJECTIVES: This analysis compared the therapeutic response of pregabalin in patients with neuropathic pain (NeP) who had been previously treated with gabapentin to the therapeutic response in patients who had not received gabapentin previously. METHODS: Data were pooled from 18 randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials of pregabalin in patients with NeP. Pregabalin-mediated changes in pain and pain-related sleep interference scores, patient global impression of change scores at endpoint, and the occurrence of adverse events were compared between patients who had received gabapentin previously (+GBN) and patients who had not received gabapentin previously (-GBN). RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the -GBN and +GBN cohorts with regard to the extent of pain relief and relief of pain-related sleep interference for any dose of pregabalin (150, 300, 600, or 150 to 600 mg/day) at any time point (6, 8, or 12 weeks). Additionally, there was no significant difference in the distribution of patient global impression of change scores at study endpoint, or the occurrence of adverse events, between the -GBN and +GBN cohorts. DISCUSSION: The findings presented here support the idea that pregabalin may be used successfully to treat patients with NeP who may be refractory, respond inadequately, or are intolerant to gabapentin. These findings highlight the importance of tailoring treatment of NeP based on individual patient response to different treatments, including the trial of multiple agents within the same mechanistic class.

Martineau, A. R., et al. (2016). "Vitamin D for the management of asthma." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 9: Cd011511.
	BACKGROUND: Several clinical trials of vitamin D to prevent asthma exacerbation and improve asthma control have been conducted in children and adults, but a meta-analysis restricted to double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trials of this intervention is lacking. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy of administration of vitamin D and its hydroxylated metabolites in reducing the risk of severe asthma exacerbations (defined as those requiring treatment with systemic corticosteroids) and improving asthma symptom control. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Trial Register and reference lists of articles. We contacted the authors of studies in order to identify additional trials. Date of last search: January 2016. SELECTION CRITERIA: Double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled trials of vitamin D in children and adults with asthma evaluating exacerbation risk or asthma symptom control or both. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently applied study inclusion criteria, extracted the data, and assessed risk of bias. We obtained missing data from the authors where possible. We reported results with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). MAIN RESULTS: We included seven trials involving a total of 435 children and two trials involving a total of 658 adults in the primary analysis. Of these, one trial involving 22 children and two trials involving 658 adults contributed to the analysis of the rate of exacerbations requiring systemic corticosteroids. Duration of trials ranged from four to 12 months, and the majority of participants had mild to moderate asthma. Administration of vitamin D reduced the rate of exacerbations requiring systemic corticosteroids (rate ratio 0.63, 95% CI 0.45 to 0.88; 680 participants; 3 studies; high-quality evidence), and decreased the risk of having at least one exacerbation requiring an emergency department visit or hospitalisation or both (odds ratio (OR) 0.39, 95% CI 0.19 to 0.78; number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome, 27; 963 participants; 7 studies; high-quality evidence). There was no effect of vitamin D on % predicted forced expiratory volume in one second (mean difference (MD) 0.48, 95% CI -0.93 to 1.89; 387 participants; 4 studies; high-quality evidence) or Asthma Control Test scores (MD -0.08, 95% CI -0.70 to 0.54; 713 participants; 3 studies; high-quality evidence). Administration of vitamin D did not influence the risk of serious adverse events (OR 1.01, 95% CI 0.54 to 1.89; 879 participants; 5 studies; moderate-quality evidence). One trial comparing low-dose versus high-dose vitamin D reported two episodes of hypercalciuria, one in each study arm. No other study reported any adverse event potentially attributable to administration of vitamin D. No participant in any included trial suffered a fatal asthma exacerbation. We did not perform a subgroup analysis to determine whether the effect of vitamin D on risk of severe exacerbation was modified by baseline vitamin D status, due to unavailability of suitably disaggregated data. We assessed two trials as being at high risk of bias in at least one domain; neither trial contributed data to the analysis of the outcomes reported above. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Meta-analysis of a modest number of trials in people with predominantly mild to moderate asthma suggests that vitamin D is likely to reduce both the risk of severe asthma exacerbation and healthcare use. It is as yet unclear whether these effects are confined to people with lower baseline vitamin D status; further research, including individual patient data meta-analysis of existing datasets, is needed to clarify this issue. Children and people with frequent severe asthma exacerbations were under-represented; additional primary trials are needed to establish whether vitamin D can reduce the risk of severe asthma exacerbation in these groups.

Mastoris, I., et al. (2016). "Dual Antiplatelet Therapy Duration: A Review of Current Available Evidence." Clin Ther 38(4): 961-973.
	PURPOSE: Multiple regimens of antiplatelet and anticoagulation therapy have been used in the past in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Later trials of PCI stenting demonstrated the efficacy of dual-antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) in reducing stent- and non-stent-related thrombotic events in this specific population. Nonetheless, the required duration of DAPT has not yet been elucidated. In this article we sought to identify various randomized clinical trials (RCTs), pooled analyses, meta-analyses, and data pertaining to the optimal duration of DAPT and attempt some recommendations based on patients' clinical and procedural profiles. METHODS: We performed an extensive search using MEDLINE, Scopus, Cochrane Library, and Internet sources for abstracts, manuscripts, and conference reports without any language or date restrictions. In our review we included all available evidence from RCTs, meta-analyses, observational studies, and abstracts pertaining to our topic. Search results that were deemed irrelevant or that would not serve the goal or topic of our review were excluded. RESULTS: Our search yielded 10 RCTs directly comparing different durations of DAPT, 3 meta-analyses amassing the evidence resulting from randomized data, and numerous observational studies that served the aim of our review. The observational studies included in the manuscript are directly related to instances in which RCTs could not be performed or introduce important concepts related to the duration of DAPT. IMPLICATIONS: There is no conclusive evidence that determines the mandatory DAPT duration after PCI. In addition, there are distinct patient populations that need specific treatment regimens, such as diabetic patients or those on long-term oral anticoagulation. Therefore, clinical judgement and meticulous examination of all pertaining risk factors are required for each individual. These factors include those related to a patient's characteristics, treatment procedures, lesion complexity, and stent type. Currently ongoing studies are anticipated to further elucidate and integrate our understanding with regard to DAPT.

Mathie, R. T., et al. (2018). "Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomised, Other-than-Placebo Controlled, Trials of Individualised Homeopathic Treatment." Homeopathy 107(4): 229-243.
	BACKGROUND: This study focuses on randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of individualised homeopathic treatment (IHT) in which the control (comparator) group was other than placebo (OTP). AIMS: To determine the comparative effectiveness of IHT on health-related outcomes in adults and children for any clinical condition that has been the subject of at least one OTP-controlled trial. For each study, to assess the risk of bias and to determine whether its study attitude was predominantly 'pragmatic' or 'explanatory'. METHODS: Systematic review. For each eligible trial, published in the peer-reviewed literature up to the end of 2015, we assessed its risk of bias (internal validity) using the seven-domain Cochrane tool, and its relative pragmatic or explanatory attitude (external validity) using the 10-domain PRECIS tool. We grouped RCTs by whether they examined IHT as an alternative treatment (study design Ia), adjunctively with another intervention (design Ib), or compared with a no-intervention group (design II). For each RCT, we identified a 'main outcome measure' to use in meta-analysis: 'relative effect size' was reported as odds ratio (OR; values >1 favouring homeopathy) or standardised mean difference (SMD; values < 0 favouring homeopathy). RESULTS: Eleven RCTs, representing 11 different medical conditions, were eligible for study. Five of the RCTs (four of which in design Ib) were judged to have pragmatic study attitude, two were explanatory, and four were equally pragmatic and explanatory. Ten trials were rated 'high risk of bias' overall: one of these, a pragmatic study with design Ib, had high risk of bias solely regarding participant blinding (a bias that is intrinsic to such trials); the other trial was rated 'uncertain risk of bias' overall. Eight trials had data that were extractable for analysis: for four heterogeneous trials with design Ia, the pooled OR was statistically non-significant; collectively for three clinically heterogeneous trials with design Ib, there was a statistically significant SMD favouring adjunctive IHT; in the remaining trial of design 1a, IHT was non-inferior to fluoxetine in the treatment of depression. CONCLUSIONS: Due to the low quality, the small number and the heterogeneity of studies, the current data preclude a decisive conclusion about the comparative effectiveness of IHT. Generalisability of findings is limited by the variable external validity identified overall; the most pragmatic study attitude was associated with RCTs of adjunctive IHT. Future OTP-controlled trials in homeopathy should aim, as far as possible, to promote both internal validity and external validity.

Mayo-Wilson, E., et al. (2015). "Integrating multiple data sources (MUDS) for meta-analysis to improve patient-centered outcomes research: a protocol." Syst Rev 4: 143.
	BACKGROUND: Systematic reviews should provide trustworthy guidance to decision-makers, but their credibility is challenged by the selective reporting of trial results and outcomes. Some trials are not published, and even among clinical trials that are published partially (e.g., as conference abstracts), many are never published in full. Although there are many potential sources of published and unpublished data for systematic reviews, there are no established methods for choosing among multiple reports or data sources about the same trial. METHODS: We will conduct systematic reviews of the effectiveness and safety of two interventions following the Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines: (1) gabapentin for neuropathic pain and (2) quetiapine for bipolar depression. For the review of gabapentin, we will include adult participants with neuropathic pain who do not require ventilator support. For the review of quetiapine, we will include adult participants with acute bipolar depression (excluding mixed or rapid cycling episodes). We will compare these drugs (used alone or in combination with other interventions) with placebo or with the same intervention alone; direct comparisons with other medications will be excluded. For each review, we will conduct highly sensitive electronic searches, and the results of the searches will be assessed by two independent reviewers. Outcomes, study characteristics, and risk of bias ratings will be extracted from multiple reports by two individuals working independently, stored in a publicly available database (Systematic Review Data Repository) and analyzed using commonly available statistical software. In each review, we will conduct a series of meta-analyses using data from different sources to determine how the results are affected by the inclusion of data from multiple published sources (e.g., journal articles and conference abstracts) as well as unpublished aggregate data (e.g., "clinical study reports") and individual participant data (IPD). We will identify patient-centered outcomes in each report and identify differences in the reporting of these outcomes across sources. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: CRD42015014037 , CRD42015014038.

Mayo-Wilson, E., et al. (2017). "Cherry-picking by trialists and meta-analysts can drive conclusions about intervention efficacy." J Clin Epidemiol 91: 95-110.
	OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to determine whether disagreements among multiple data sources affect systematic reviews of randomized clinical trials (RCTs). STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Eligible RCTs examined gabapentin for neuropathic pain and quetiapine for bipolar depression, reported in public (e.g., journal articles) and nonpublic sources (clinical study reports [CSRs] and individual participant data [IPD]). RESULTS: We found 21 gabapentin RCTs (74 reports, 6 IPD) and 7 quetiapine RCTs (50 reports, 1 IPD); most were reported in journal articles (18/21 [86%] and 6/7 [86%], respectively). When available, CSRs contained the most trial design and risk of bias information. CSRs and IPD contained the most results. For the outcome domains "pain intensity" (gabapentin) and "depression" (quetiapine), we found single trials with 68 and 98 different meta-analyzable results, respectively; by purposefully selecting one meta-analyzable result for each RCT, we could change the overall result for pain intensity from effective (standardized mean difference [SMD] = -0.45; 95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.63 to -0.27) to ineffective (SMD = -0.06; 95% CI: -0.24 to 0.12). We could change the effect for depression from a medium effect (SMD = -0.55; 95% CI: -0.85 to -0.25) to a small effect (SMD = -0.26; 95% CI: -0.41 to -0.1). CONCLUSIONS: Disagreements across data sources affect the effect size, statistical significance, and interpretation of trials and meta-analyses.

Mead, G., et al. (2015). "The FOCUS, AFFINITY and EFFECTS trials studying the effect(s) of fluoxetine in patients with a recent stroke: a study protocol for three multicentre randomised controlled trials." Trials 16: 369.
	BACKGROUND: Several small trials have suggested that fluoxetine improves neurological recovery from stroke. FOCUS, AFFINITY and EFFECTS are a family of investigator-led, multicentre, parallel group, randomised, placebo-controlled trials that aim to determine whether routine administration of fluoxetine (20 mg daily) for 6 months after acute stroke improves patients' functional outcome. METHODS/DESIGN: The three trial investigator teams have collaboratively developed a core protocol. Minor variations have been tailored to the national setting in the UK (FOCUS), Australia and New Zealand (AFFINITY) and Sweden (EFFECTS). Each trial is run and funded independently and will report its own results. A prospectively planned individual patient data meta-analysis of all three trials will subsequently provide the most precise estimate of the overall effect of fluoxetine after stroke and establish whether any effects differ between trials and subgroups of patients. The trials include patients >/=18 years old with a clinical diagnosis of stroke, persisting focal neurological deficits at randomisation between 2 and 15 days after stroke onset. Patients are randomised centrally via web-based randomisation systems using a common minimisation algorithm. Patients are allocated fluoxetine 20 mg once daily or matching placebo capsules for 6 months. Our primary outcome measure is the modified Rankin scale (mRS) at 6 months. Secondary outcomes include the Stroke Impact Scale, EuroQol (EQ5D-5 L), the vitality subscale of the Short-Form 36, diagnosis of depression, adherence to medication, adverse events and resource use. Outcomes are collected at 6 and 12 months. The methods of collecting these data are tailored to the national setting. If FOCUS, AFFINITY and EFFECTS combined enrol 6000 participants as planned, they would have 90 % power (alpha 5 %) to detect a common odds ratio of 1.16, equivalent to a 3.7 % absolute difference in percentage with mRS 0-2 (44.0 % to 47.7 %). This is based on an ordinal analysis of mRS adjusted for baseline variables included in the minimisation algorithm. DISCUSSION: If fluoxetine is safe and effective in promoting functional recovery, it could be rapidly, widely and affordably implemented in routine clinical practice and reduce the burden of disability due to stroke. TRIAL REGISTRATION: FOCUS: ISRCTN83290762 (23/05/2012), AFFINITY: ACTRN12611000774921 (22/07/2011). EFFECTS: ISRCTN13020412 (19/12/2014).

Melnikow, J., et al. (2018). U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic Evidence Reviews. Screening for Cervical Cancer With High-Risk Human Papillomavirus Testing: A Systematic Evidence Review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Rockville (MD), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US).
	IMPORTANCE: Cervical cancer can be prevented with early detection and treatment of precancerous lesions that are caused primarily by infection with high-risk strains of human papillomavirus (hrHPV). Current guidelines for screening in the United States focus on cytology screening with the Papanicolaou (Pap) test, with hrHPV cotesting as an option for women ages 30 to 65 years that allows for longer rescreening intervals. Evidence from large trials evaluating screening programs involving primary hrHPV testing (hrHPV alone as the initial test) and cotesting may inform new screening strategies. Evidence supporting cytology screening is well established, so this review evaluated screening with hrHPV testing alone (i.e., primary hrHPV testing) or as cotesting with cytology compared to cytology alone to address whether these forms of screening provide better protection from cervical cancer and allow for longer rescreening intervals. Rates of cervical cancer are very low among routinely screened women in the United States, but not all women are routinely screened, and there are significant racial/ethnic disparities in morbidity and mortality from cervical cancer. OBJECTIVE: To systematically review the benefits and harms of screening for cervical cancer using hrHPV testing as the screening strategy (with or without cytology). DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, PubMed, PsychINFO, and Cochrane Collaboration Registry of Controlled Trials, and the Education Resources Information Center from January 2011 through February 15, 2017. STUDY SELECTION: English-language trials of benefits or harms of screening for cervical cancer using hrHPV testing as the screening strategy (with or without cytology) in women age 21 years or older. Cohort studies were also considered for inclusion to evaluate harms and screening performance in large, representative primary care populations and in underscreened women. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Two investigators independently reviewed abstracts and full-text articles, and then extracted data from fair- and good-quality trials and cohort studies. Results were qualitatively synthesized. MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Cervical cancer mortality, invasive cervical cancer (ICC) incidence, early detection of disease (i.e., cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN] 3+), rates of false-positive and false-negative screening, colposcopy and biopsy rates, quality of life and other harms. RESULTS: We included eight randomized, controlled trials (RCTs) (n=410,556), five cohort studies (n=402,609), and one individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis (n=176,464). Trials were heterogeneous with regard to type of cytology (conventional vs. liquid-based cytology), type of hrHPV test (DNA PCR enzyme immunoassay vs. Hybrid Capture 2), screening interval (2 to 5 years), followup protocols for abnormal results, number of screening rounds (1 or 2), and consistency of screening protocols between rounds. Two fair-quality trials and one good-quality trial evaluated primary hrHPV screening (hrHPV testing alone) compared with cytology alone; two good- and two fair-quality trials compared hrHPV cotesting with cytology alone. The evidence was generally consistent across four trials with variable protocols and hrHPV test types demonstrating that primary hrHPV testing increased detection of CIN3+ in the initial round of screening (relative risk [RR] range, 1.61 [95% CI, 1.09 to 2.37] to 7.46 [95% CI, 1.02 to 54.66]). Only one trial of primary hrHPV testing, where all women with a positive hrHPV test were referred to colposcopy, had complete results from two rounds of screening (at Round 2 screening all women received cytology testing). In that study, CIN3+ detection in Round 1 was 3-fold higher in the hrHPV testing group. In the second screening round, CIN3+ detection was significantly lower among women in the intervention group (RR, 0.22 [95% CI, 0.08 to 0.58]), and cumulative detection over both screening rounds was 1.8-fold higher. Results of a large, single-arm, fair-quality cohort study of primary hrHPV testing at 3-year intervals were consistent with trial findings: CIN3+ detection in the second screening round was significantly lower compared to the first round (RR, 0.14 [95% CI, 0.06 to 0.32]). Among four trials of hrHPV cotesting, the first round CIN3+ detection was higher in the intervention group in two trials (though not significant) and equal in two trials. Cumulative CIN3+ detection over two rounds of screening ranged from 0.3 to 1.6 percent across studies. The relative risk for cumulative CIN3+ detection ranged from 0.91 to 1.13; none were significantly different from one. Long-term followup (13-year) in one trial showed similar results. ICC incidence was very rare. An IPD meta-analysis pooled data from five heterogeneous trials (including primary hrHPV testing and cotesting). A total of 107 cases of ICC among 176,464 women were identified in the trials, with a pooled RR of 0.60 (95% CI, 0.40 to 0.89) over one or two rounds of hrHPV screening compared to cytology alone and 5 to 12 years of followup data. Each of these trials included different patient populations and screening test protocols, adding uncertainty to interpretation of pooled findings. Evidence on subgroups was limited to age and a single cohort study focused on previously inadequately or unscreened women. Women younger than age 35 years had consistently higher rates of hrHPV positivity and of CIN3+. Outcomes of hrHPV primary testing or cotesting by age were not notably different from the results of the overall study populations. A small cohort study of cotesting among 1,832 Spanish women not screened in the previous 5 years found 9 cases of CIN3+; of these, 3 cases of CIN3+ were detected by hrHPV testing but not by cytology alone. The included trials did not report on potential adverse consequences of the screening tests, diagnostic procedures, or treatments and associated harms. Screening test positivity, false-positive rates (FPRs) for CIN2+ detection, and colposcopy referrals tended to be higher in the intervention groups of the trials, particularly at Round 1 screening. FPRs were higher in the intervention arm of one completed primary hrHPV trial and less discrepant in the other trial reporting test performance. In hrHPV cotesting trials, test positivity in the intervention group ranged from 7 to 22 percent of screened women, and was approximately 2- to 3-fold higher than in the control group arm. FPRs were also consistently higher in the intervention group at Round 1 for the three cotesting trials reporting on this outcome, ranging from 6 to 20 percent, and nearly 2- to 3-fold higher than control group rates. Two cotesting trials reported test performance data from Round 2 screening; the FPR was similar between arms in one trial, but 2 times higher in the intervention arm in another. Four hrHPV primary screening trials and two cotesting trials reported referrals to colposcopy. Rates of referral to colposcopy in the control groups ranged from 1 to 3 percent. Two primary hrHPV testing trials had more referrals among women in the intervention arms versus control group at Round 1 of screening (8% and 6% vs. 3%). Two other trials of primary hrHPV testing had similar rates of referral in both trial arms. Two hrHPV cotesting trials reported more referrals to colposcopy in the intervention group compared to the control group (11% vs. 3% and 7% vs. 5%). Round 2 colposcopy referral rates, reported only in one cotesting trial, were similar between treatment groups (IG, 3% vs. CG, 2%). Biopsy rates were reported in the IPD meta-analysis; the pooled estimate had very high heterogeneity, largely explained by the 2-fold difference in biopsy rates between intervention and control arms in the two trials that referred all hrHPV+ women to colposcopy. Biopsy rates were similar between arms for the other trials. Data were too sparse to draw conclusions regarding the risk of missed cases of cervical cancer (false negatives) for different screening strategies, given very few cases of ICC detected. Limited evidence on psychological harms from one cross-sectional study (n=428) and a substudy of one cotesting trial (n=2,508) suggested that women receiving hrHPV positive test results experienced increased anxiety and distress, and reduced satisfaction with sexual partnerships. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Eight large randomized trials, four of primary hrHPV testing and four of hrHPV cotesting, contributed to the evidence comparing use of hrHPV testing as part of cervical cancer screening with cytology alone for detection of CIN3+. All trials were conducted in the context of organized screening programs, with heterogeneous screening strategies and followup protocols. Interpretation of trial findings was limited by the fact that after one round of screening, only one trial conducted further screening applying the originally assigned strategies in the control and intervention arms. In all other trials, both arms received the same test at Round 2 (either cytology alone or hrHPV cotesting). Primary hrHPV testing increased detection of CIN3+ in the initial round of screening by as much as 2- to 3-fold. Only the trial of primary hrHPV testing, where all women with a positive hrHPV test were referred to colposcopy, had results from two rounds of screening. In that study, CIN3+ detection in Round 1 was 3-fold higher in the primary hrHPV testing arm, and cumulative detection was 1.8-fold higher after the second round of screening. Evidence was mixed in cotesting trials. No trial showed a significant increase in CIN 3+ detection in Round 1 for cotesting. In two of four trials, CIN3+ detection was lower in Round 2 in the hrHPV cotesting arm and higher in the cytology alone arm. Cumulative CIN3+ detection was similar between intervention and control study arms in all trials. Because no trial sustained the intervention and control group protocols beyond two screening rounds, evidence comparing the long-term outcomes of primary hrHPV testing or cotesting with cytology was lacking. Data to compare potential harms of different screening strategies were similarly limited, and none of the included trials or observational studies reported on harms of the screening test or treatments. False-positive rates and referrals to colposcopy were in some trials 2- to 3-fold higher with hrHPV-based screening strategies relative to cytology alone in the first screening round, and evidence was lacking to determine whether these differences might persist over multiple screening rounds. Risks of missed ICC were very low regardless of the screening strategy used. An IPD meta-analysis suggested a lower rate of ICC with hrHPV screening strategies, but this analysis pooled data from trials with distinctly different screening strategies and hrHPV test types, adding uncertainty to interpretation of the findings. In most trials and in a large U.S.-based observational study, women younger than age 30 to 35 years had higher rates of hrHPV positivity and CIN3+, accompanied by higher rates of colposcopy. No completed studies compared different screening intervals. All of the RCTs on hrHPV screening were conducted in countries with organized screening programs, which are not available to most women in the United States. Rigorous comparative research is needed in U.S. screening settings to examine longer screening intervals, long-term outcomes, and to identify effective strategies for outreach and screening of poorly screened and unscreened women. The higher sensitivity of hrHPV testing in a single round may have potential to improve outcomes in this high-risk population.

Melnikow, J., et al. (2018). "Screening for Cervical Cancer With High-Risk Human Papillomavirus Testing: Updated Evidence Report and Systematic Review for the US Preventive Services Task Force." Jama 320(7): 687-705.
	Importance: Cervical cancer can be prevented with detection and treatment of precancerous cell changes caused primarily by high-risk types of human papillomavirus (hrHPV), the causative agents in more than 90% of cervical cancers. Objective: To systematically review benefits and harms of cervical cancer screening for hrHPV to inform the US Preventive Services Task Force. Data Sources: MEDLINE, PubMed, PsycINFO, and the Cochrane Collaboration Registry of Controlled Trials from January 2011 through February 15, 2017; surveillance through May 25, 2018. Study Selection: Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) and cohort studies comparing primary hrHPV screening alone or hrHPV cotesting (both hrHPV testing and cytology) with cytology (Papanicolaou [Pap] test) screening alone. Data Extraction and Synthesis: Two investigators independently reviewed abstracts and full-text articles and quality rated included studies; data were qualitatively synthesized. Main Outcomes and Measures: Invasive cervical cancer; cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN); false-positive, colposcopy, and biopsy rates; psychological harms. Results: Eight RCTs (n = 410556), 5 cohort studies (n = 402615), and 1 individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis (n = 176464) were included. Trials were heterogeneous for screening interval, number of rounds, and protocol. For primary hrHPV screening, evidence was consistent across 4 trials demonstrating increased detection of CIN 3 or worse (CIN 3+) in round 1 (relative risk [RR] range, 1.61 [95% CI, 1.09-2.37] to 7.46 [95% CI, 1.02-54.66]). Among 4 hrHPV cotesting trials, first-round CIN 3+ detection was not significantly different between screening groups; RRs for cumulative CIN 3+ detection over 2 screening rounds ranged from 0.91 to 1.13. In first-round screening, false-positive rates for primary hrHPV screening ranged from 6.6% to 7.4%, compared with 2.6% to 6.5% for cytology. For cotesting, false-positives ranged from 5.8% to 19.9% in the first round of screening, compared with 2.6% to 10.9% for cytology. First-round colposcopy rates were also higher, ranging 1.2% to 7.9% for primary hrHPV testing, compared with 1.1% to 3.1% for cytology alone; colposcopy rates for cotesting ranged from 6.8% to 10.9%, compared with 3.3% to 5.2% for cytology alone. The IPD meta-analysis of data from 4 cotesting trials and 1 primary hrHPV screening trial found lower risk of invasive cervical cancer with any hrHPV screening compared with cytology alone (pooled RR, 0.60 [95% CI, 0.40-0.89]). Conclusions and Relevance: Primary hrHPV screening detected higher rates of CIN 3+ at first-round screening compared with cytology. Cotesting trials did not show initial increased CIN 3+ detection. Both hrHPV screening strategies had higher false-positive and colposcopy rates than cytology, which could lead to more treatments with potential harms.

Moghaddam Hosseini, V., et al. (2018). "Interventions for reducing fear of childbirth: A systematic review and meta-analysis of clinical trials." Women Birth 31(4): 254-262.
	INTRODUCTION: Fear of childbirth is a problematic mental health issue during pregnancy. But, effective interventions to reduce this problem are not well understood. OBJECTIVES: To examine effective interventions for reducing fear of childbirth. MATERIAL AND METHODS: The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, PubMed, Embase and PsycINFO were searched since inception till September 2017 without any restriction. Randomised controlled trials and quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing interventions for treatment of fear of childbirth were included. The standardized mean differences were pooled using random and fixed effect models. The heterogeneity was determined using the Cochran's test and I(2) index and was further explored in meta-regression model and subgroup analyses. RESULTS: Ten studies inclusive of 3984 participants were included in the meta-analysis (2 quasi-randomized and 8 randomized clinical trials). Eight studies investigated education and two studies investigated hypnosis-based intervention. The pooled standardized mean differences of fear for the education intervention and hypnosis group in comparison with control group were -0.46 (95% CI -0.73 to -0.19) and -0.22 (95% CI -0.34 to -0.10), respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Both types of interventions were effective in reducing fear of childbirth; however our pooled results revealed that educational interventions may reduce fear with double the effect of hypnosis. Further large scale randomized clinical trials and individual patient data meta-analysis are warranted for assessing the association.

Moller, G., et al. (2017). "A systematic review and meta-analysis of nutrition therapy compared with dietary advice in patients with type 2 diabetes." Am J Clin Nutr 106(6): 1394-1400.
	Background: Despite recommendations, many patients with type 2 diabetes receive dietary advice from nurses or doctors instead of individualized nutrition therapy (INT) that is provided by a dietitian.Objective: We performed a meta-analysis to compare the effect of INT that is provided by a registered dietitian with the effect of dietary advice that is provided by other healthcare professionals.Design: A systematic review was conducted of Cochrane library databases, EMBASE, CINAHL, and MEDLINE in the period 2004-2017 for guidelines, reviews, and randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that assessed the outcomes glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), weight, body mass index (BMI; in kg/m(2)), and LDL cholesterol. Risk of bias and the quality of evidence were assessed according to the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation guidelines.Results: We identified 5 RCTs comprising 912 participants in total. In the first year of intervention (at 6 or 12 mo), nutrition therapy compared with dietary advice was followed by a 0.45% (95% CI: 0.36%, 0.53%) lower mean difference in HbA1c, a 0.55 (95% CI: 0.02, 1.1) lower BMI, a 2.1-kg (95% CI: 1.2-, 2.9-kg) lower weight, and a 0.17-mmol/L (95% CI: 0.11-, 0.23-mmol/L) lower LDL cholesterol. No longer-term data were available. Some of the included studies had a potential bias, and therefore, the quality of the evidence was low or moderate. In addition, it was necessary to pool primary and secondary outcomes.Conclusions: INT that is provided by a dietitian compared with dietary advice that is provided by other health professionals leads to a greater effect on HbA1c, weight, and LDL cholesterol. Because of the potential bias, we recommend considering nutrition therapy that is provided by a dietitian as part of lifestyle intervention in type 2 diabetes, but further randomized studies are warranted.

Moller, H. J., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of Silexan in subthreshold anxiety: meta-analysis of randomised, placebo-controlled trials." Eur Arch Psychiatry Clin Neurosci 269(2): 183-193.
	Subthreshold psychiatric disorders do not fully meet the diagnostic criteria of syndromal disorders but may be associated with comparable disability. To investigate the anxiolytic effect of Silexan, an active substance from lavender oil for oral administration, in patients with subthreshold anxiety, a meta-analysis that included all published trials with Silexan in this indication was performed. Three randomised, placebo-controlled trials in subthreshold anxiety disorders (anxiety disorder not otherwise specified, restlessness and agitation, mixed anxiety and depressive disorder) were included. Eligible participants with a baseline Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA) total score >/= 18 points received 1 x 80 mg/day Silexan or placebo for 10 weeks. Outcomes included the HAMA, the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, the Zung Self-rating Anxiety Scale, the Clinical Global Impressions questionnaire and the SF-36 health status inventory. Data were analysed using meta-analysis based on pooled raw data of individual patients (random effects models). A total of 697 patients were assessed for efficacy. Silexan was superior to placebo in reducing the HAMA total score during 10 weeks' treatment [mean value difference, 95% confidence interval: 3.83 (1.28; 6.37) points]. Superiority was comparably pronounced for psychic and somatic anxiety as well as for observer- and self-rated anxiety. Silexan had a beneficial effect on sleep (secondary to the anxiolytic effect) without causing sedation and improved the patients' health-related quality of life. Adverse event incidence in both treatment groups was comparable [risk ratio: 1.06 (0.85; 1.33)]. Silexan has a significant and clinically meaningful anxiolytic effect in subthreshold anxiety. The results cannot be generalised to other lavender oil products.

Moore, R. A., et al. (2015). "Overview review: Comparative efficacy of oral ibuprofen and paracetamol (acetaminophen) across acute and chronic pain conditions." Eur J Pain 19(9): 1213-1223.
	BACKGROUND: Ibuprofen and paracetamol have long been used as analgesics in a range of acute, intermittent and chronic pain conditions. Paracetamol is often the first line analgesic recommended, without consensus about which is the better analgesic. METHODS: An overview review of systematic reviews and meta-analyses directly compares ibuprofen and paracetamol at standard doses in particular painful conditions, or uses indirect comparisons against placebo. Electronic searches for systematic reviews were sought published since 1995 using outcomes approximating to >/=50% pain intensity reduction. Painful conditions were acute post-operative pain, dysmenorrhoea, tension-type headache (TTH), migraine, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, back pain, cancer and paediatric pain. There was no systematic assessment of harm. RESULTS: Sixteen systematic reviews and four individual patient data meta-analyses were included. Ibuprofen was consistently superior to paracetamol at conventional doses in a range of painful conditions. Two direct comparisons favoured ibuprofen (acute pain, osteoarthritis). Three of four indirect comparisons favoured ibuprofen (acute pain, migraine, osteoarthritis); one showed no difference (TTH), although there were methodological problems. In five pain conditions (dysmenorrhoea, paediatric pain, cancer pain, back pain and rheumatoid arthritis), there were limited data on paracetamol and ibuprofen. CONCLUSIONS: At standard doses in different painful conditions, ibuprofen was usually superior producing more patients with the degree of pain relief that patients feel worthwhile. Neither of the drugs will be effective for everyone, and both are needed. This overview questions the practice of routinely using paracetamol as a first line analgesic because there is no good evidence for efficacy of paracetamol in many pain conditions.

Moreno, L., et al. (2017). "Outcome of children with relapsed or refractory neuroblastoma: A meta-analysis of ITCC/SIOPEN European phase II clinical trials." Pediatr Blood Cancer 64(1): 25-31.
	BACKGROUND: Few randomized trials have been conducted in children with relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma and data about outcomes including progression-free survival (PFS) in these patients are scarce. PROCEDURE: A meta-analysis of three phase II studies of children with relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma conducted in Europe (temozolomide, topotecan-vincristine-doxorubicin and topotecan-temozolomide) was performed. Individual patient data with extended follow-up were collected from the trial databases after publication to describe trial outcomes (response rate, clinical benefit ratio, duration of treatment, PFS, and overall survival [OS]). Characteristics of subjects with relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma were compared. RESULTS: Data from 71 children and adolescents with relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma were collected. Response definitions were not homogeneous in the three trials. Patients were on study for a median of 3.5 months (interquartile range [IQR] 1.9-6.2). Of those, 35.2% achieved a complete or partial response, 26.3% experienced a response after more than two cycles, and 23.9% received more than six cycles. Median PFS from study entry for all, refractory, and relapsed patients was 6.4 +/- 1.0, 12.5 +/- 6.8, and 5.7 +/- 1.0 months, respectively (P = 0.006). Median OS from study entry for all, refractory, and relapsed patients was 16.1 +/- 4.3, 27.9 +/- 20.2, and 11.0 +/- 1.6 months, respectively (P = 0.03). CONCLUSIONS: Baseline data for response rate, clinical benefit ratio, duration of treatment, PFS, and OS were provided. Two subpopulations (relapsed/refractory) were clearly distinct and should be included in the interpretation of all trials. These results should help informing the design of forthcoming studies in relapsed/refractory neuroblastoma.

Morris, T., et al. (2015). "Can we convert between outcome measures of disability for chronic low back pain?" Spine (Phila Pa 1976) 40(10): 734-739.
	STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective database analysis. OBJECTIVE: A range of patient-reported outcomes were used to measure disability due to low back pain. There is not a single back pain disability measurement commonly used in all randomized controlled trials. We report here our assessment as to whether different disability measures are sufficiently comparable to allow data pooling across trials. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: We used individual patient data from a repository of data from back pain trials of therapist-delivered interventions. METHODS: We used data from 11 trials (n=6089 patients) that had at least 2 of the following 7 measurements: Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire, Chronic Pain Grade disability score, Physical Component Summary of the 12- or 36-Item Short Form Health Survey, Patient Specific Functional Scale, Pain Disability Index, Oswestry Disability Index, and Hannover Functional Ability Questionnaire. Within each trial, the change score between baseline and short-term follow-up was computed for each outcome and this was used to calculate the correlation between the change scores and the Cohen's kappa for the 3-level outcome of change score of less than, equal to, and more than zero. It was considered feasible to pool 2 measures if they were at least moderately correlated (correlation>0.5) and have at least moderately similar responsiveness (kappa>0.4). RESULTS: Although all pairs of measures were found to be positively correlated, most correlations were less than 0.5, with only 1 pair of outcomes in 1 trial having a correlation of more than 0.6. All kappa statistics were less than 0.4 so that in no cases were the criteria for acceptability of pooling measures satisfied. CONCLUSION: The lack of agreement between different outcome measures means that pooling of data on these different disability measurements in a meta-analysis is not recommended. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

Mouncey, P. R., et al. (2015). "Protocolised Management In Sepsis (ProMISe): a multicentre randomised controlled trial of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of early, goal-directed, protocolised resuscitation for emerging septic shock." Health Technol Assess 19(97): i-xxv, 1-150.
	BACKGROUND: Early goal-directed therapy (EGDT) is recommended in international guidance for the resuscitation of patients presenting with early septic shock. However, adoption has been limited and uncertainty remains over its clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness. OBJECTIVES: The primary objective was to estimate the effect of EGDT compared with usual resuscitation on mortality at 90 days following randomisation and on incremental cost-effectiveness at 1 year. The secondary objectives were to compare EGDT with usual resuscitation for requirement for, and duration of, critical care unit organ support; length of stay in the emergency department (ED), critical care unit and acute hospital; health-related quality of life, resource use and costs at 90 days and at 1 year; all-cause mortality at 28 days, at acute hospital discharge and at 1 year; and estimated lifetime incremental cost-effectiveness. DESIGN: A pragmatic, open, multicentre, parallel-group randomised controlled trial with an integrated economic evaluation. SETTING: Fifty-six NHS hospitals in England. PARTICIPANTS: A total of 1260 patients who presented at EDs with septic shock. INTERVENTIONS: EGDT (n = 630) or usual resuscitation (n = 630). Patients were randomly allocated 1 : 1. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: All-cause mortality at 90 days after randomisation and incremental net benefit (at pound20,000 per quality-adjusted life-year) at 1 year. RESULTS: Following withdrawals, data on 1243 (EGDT, n = 623; usual resuscitation, n = 620) patients were included in the analysis. By 90 days, 184 (29.5%) in the EGDT and 181 (29.2%) patients in the usual-resuscitation group had died [p = 0.90; absolute risk reduction -0.3%, 95% confidence interval (CI) -5.4 to 4.7; relative risk 1.01, 95% CI 0.85 to 1.20]. Treatment intensity was greater for the EGDT group, indicated by the increased use of intravenous fluids, vasoactive drugs and red blood cell transfusions. Increased treatment intensity was reflected by significantly higher Sequential Organ Failure Assessment scores and more advanced cardiovascular support days in critical care for the EGDT group. At 1 year, the incremental net benefit for EGDT versus usual resuscitation was negative at - pound725 (95% CI - pound3000 to pound1550). The probability that EGDT was more cost-effective than usual resuscitation was below 30%. There were no significant differences in any other secondary outcomes, including health-related quality of life, or adverse events. LIMITATIONS: Recruitment was lower at weekends and out of hours. The intervention could not be blinded. CONCLUSIONS: There was no significant difference in all-cause mortality at 90 days for EGDT compared with usual resuscitation among adults identified with early septic shock presenting to EDs in England. On average, costs were higher in the EGDT group than in the usual-resuscitation group while quality-adjusted life-years were similar in both groups; the probability that it is cost-effective is < 30%. FUTURE WORK: The ProMISe (Protocolised Management In Sepsis) trial completes the planned trio of evaluations of EGDT across the USA, Australasia and England; all have indicated that EGDT is not superior to usual resuscitation. Recognising that each of the three individual, large trials has limited power for evaluating potentially important subgroups, the harmonised approach adopted provides the opportunity to conduct an individual patient data meta-analysis, enhancing both knowledge and generalisability. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN36307479. FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 19, No. 97. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.

Mucke, M., et al. (2018). "Cannabis-based medicines for chronic neuropathic pain in adults." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 3: Cd012182.
	BACKGROUND: This review is one of a series on drugs used to treat chronic neuropathic pain. Estimates of the population prevalence of chronic pain with neuropathic components range between 6% and 10%. Current pharmacological treatment options for neuropathic pain afford substantial benefit for only a few people, often with adverse effects that outweigh the benefits. There is a need to explore other treatment options, with different mechanisms of action for treatment of conditions with chronic neuropathic pain. Cannabis has been used for millennia to reduce pain. Herbal cannabis is currently strongly promoted by some patients and their advocates to treat any type of chronic pain. OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy, tolerability, and safety of cannabis-based medicines (herbal, plant-derived, synthetic) compared to placebo or conventional drugs for conditions with chronic neuropathic pain in adults. SEARCH METHODS: In November 2017 we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and two trials registries for published and ongoing trials, and examined the reference lists of reviewed articles. SELECTION CRITERIA: We selected randomised, double-blind controlled trials of medical cannabis, plant-derived and synthetic cannabis-based medicines against placebo or any other active treatment of conditions with chronic neuropathic pain in adults, with a treatment duration of at least two weeks and at least 10 participants per treatment arm. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three review authors independently extracted data of study characteristics and outcomes of efficacy, tolerability and safety, examined issues of study quality, and assessed risk of bias. We resolved discrepancies by discussion. For efficacy, we calculated the number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) for pain relief of 30% and 50% or greater, patient's global impression to be much or very much improved, dropout rates due to lack of efficacy, and the standardised mean differences for pain intensity, sleep problems, health-related quality of life (HRQoL), and psychological distress. For tolerability, we calculated number needed to treat for an additional harmful outcome (NNTH) for withdrawal due to adverse events and specific adverse events, nervous system disorders and psychiatric disorders. For safety, we calculated NNTH for serious adverse events. Meta-analysis was undertaken using a random-effects model. We assessed the quality of evidence using GRADE and created a 'Summary of findings' table. MAIN RESULTS: We included 16 studies with 1750 participants. The studies were 2 to 26 weeks long and compared an oromucosal spray with a plant-derived combination of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) (10 studies), a synthetic cannabinoid mimicking THC (nabilone) (two studies), inhaled herbal cannabis (two studies) and plant-derived THC (dronabinol) (two studies) against placebo (15 studies) and an analgesic (dihydrocodeine) (one study). We used the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool to assess study quality. We defined studies with zero to two unclear or high risks of bias judgements to be high-quality studies, with three to five unclear or high risks of bias to be moderate-quality studies, and with six to eight unclear or high risks of bias to be low-quality studies. Study quality was low in two studies, moderate in 12 studies and high in two studies. Nine studies were at high risk of bias for study size. We rated the quality of the evidence according to GRADE as very low to moderate.Primary outcomesCannabis-based medicines may increase the number of people achieving 50% or greater pain relief compared with placebo (21% versus 17%; risk difference (RD) 0.05 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.00 to 0.09); NNTB 20 (95% CI 11 to 100); 1001 participants, eight studies, low-quality evidence). We rated the evidence for improvement in Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) with cannabis to be of very low quality (26% versus 21%;RD 0.09 (95% CI 0.01 to 0.17); NNTB 11 (95% CI 6 to 100); 1092 participants, six studies). More participants withdrew from the studies due to adverse events with cannabis-based medicines (10% of participants) than with placebo (5% of participants) (RD 0.04 (95% CI 0.02 to 0.07); NNTH 25 (95% CI 16 to 50); 1848 participants, 13 studies, moderate-quality evidence). We did not have enough evidence to determine if cannabis-based medicines increase the frequency of serious adverse events compared with placebo (RD 0.01 (95% CI -0.01 to 0.03); 1876 participants, 13 studies, low-quality evidence).Secondary outcomesCannabis-based medicines probably increase the number of people achieving pain relief of 30% or greater compared with placebo (39% versus 33%; RD 0.09 (95% CI 0.03 to 0.15); NNTB 11 (95% CI 7 to 33); 1586 participants, 10 studies, moderate quality evidence). Cannabis-based medicines may increase nervous system adverse events compared with placebo (61% versus 29%; RD 0.38 (95% CI 0.18 to 0.58); NNTH 3 (95% CI 2 to 6); 1304 participants, nine studies, low-quality evidence). Psychiatric disorders occurred in 17% of participants using cannabis-based medicines and in 5% using placebo (RD 0.10 (95% CI 0.06 to 0.15); NNTH 10 (95% CI 7 to 16); 1314 participants, nine studies, low-quality evidence).We found no information about long-term risks in the studies analysed.Subgroup analysesWe are uncertain whether herbal cannabis reduces mean pain intensity (very low-quality evidence). Herbal cannabis and placebo did not differ in tolerability (very low-quality evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The potential benefits of cannabis-based medicine (herbal cannabis, plant-derived or synthetic THC, THC/CBD oromucosal spray) in chronic neuropathic pain might be outweighed by their potential harms. The quality of evidence for pain relief outcomes reflects the exclusion of participants with a history of substance abuse and other significant comorbidities from the studies, together with their small sample sizes.

Musial, F. (2019). "Acupuncture for the Treatment of Pain - A Mega-Placebo?" Front Neurosci 13: 1110.
	Several control conditions, such as penetrating sham acupuncture and non-penetrating placebo needles, have been used in clinical trials on acupuncture effects in chronic pain syndromes. All these control conditions are surprisingly effective with regard to their analgesic properties. These findings have fostered a discussion as to whether acupuncture is merely a placebo. Meta-analyses on the clinical effectiveness of placebo revealed that placebo interventions in general have minor, clinically important effects. Only in trials on pain and nausea, including acupuncture studies, did placebo effects vary from negligible to clinically important. At the same time, individual patient meta-analyses confirm that acupuncture is effective for the treatment of chronic pain, including small but statistically significant differences between acupuncture and sham acupuncture. All acupuncture control conditions induce de qi, a distinct stimulation associated with pain and needling which has been shown to be a nociceptive/pain stimulus. Acupuncture therefore probably activates the pain matrix in the brain in a bottom-up fashion via the spino-thalamic tract. Central nervous system effects of acupuncture can be modulated through expectations, which are believed to be a central component of the placebo response. However, further investigation is required to determine how strong the influence of placebo on the attenuation of activity in the pain matrix really is. A meta-analysis of individual participant functional magnetic imaging data reveals only weak effects of placebo on the activity of the pain network. The clinical acupuncture setting is comprised of a combination of a distinct neurophysiological stimulus, the needling stimulus/experience, and a complex treatment situation. A broader definition of placebo, such as that proposed by Howick (2017) acknowledges a role for expectation, treatment context, emotions, learning, and other contextual variables of a treatment situation. The inclusion of particular treatment feature as a definitional element permits a contextual definition of placebo, which in turn can be helpful in constructing future clinical trials on acupuncture.

Naci, H., et al. (2015). "Timely publication and sharing of trial data: opportunities and challenges for comparative effectiveness research in cardiovascular disease." Eur Heart J Qual Care Clin Outcomes 1(2): 58-65.
	There is growing enthusiasm for the timely publication and sharing of clinical trial data. The rationale for open access includes greater transparency, reproducibility, and efficiency of the research enterprise. In cardiovascular diseases, routinely sharing clinical trial data would create opportunities for undertaking comparative effectiveness research, providing much needed evidence on how different interventions compare to each other on key outcomes. Access to individual patient-level data would strengthen the validity of such research. Novel methodological approaches like network meta-analyses using individual patient-level data could reliably compare interventions that have not been compared with each other in head-to-head trials. However, there are significant practical, methodological, financial, and legal challenges to this utopian open access that need to be continually addressed. Sharing clinical trial data openly will only occur when the previously tolerated process of clinical research involving direct ownership and secrecy is abandoned for a new culture in which medical science is open to all of its stakeholders. With this new culture, data will be accessible, reanalysis will be considered commonplace, and comparative effectiveness research through novel synthesis approaches, such as network meta-analyses, can thrive-as long as measures are taken to adequately ensure the goal remains to promote public health.

Navani, N., et al. (2019). "The Accuracy of Clinical Staging of Stage I-IIIa Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: An Analysis Based on Individual Participant Data." Chest 155(3): 502-509.
	BACKGROUND: Clinical staging of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) helps determine the prognosis and treatment of patients; few data exist on the accuracy of clinical staging and the impact on treatment and survival of patients. We assessed whether participant or trial characteristics were associated with clinical staging accuracy as well as impact on survival. METHODS: We used individual participant data from randomized controlled trials (RCTs), supplied for a meta-analysis of preoperative chemotherapy (+/- radiotherapy) vs surgery alone (+/- radiotherapy) in NSCLC. We assessed agreement between clinical TNM (cTNM) stage at randomization and pathologic TNM (pTNM) stage, for participants in the control group. RESULTS: Results are based on 698 patients who received surgery alone (+/- radiotherapy) with data for cTNM and pTNM stage. Forty-six percent of cases were cTNM stage I, 23% were cTNM stage II, and 31% were cTNM stage IIIa. cTNM stage disagreed with pTNM stage in 48% of cases, with 34% clinically understaged and 14% clinically overstaged. Agreement was not associated with age (P = .12), sex (P = .62), histology (P = .82), staging method (P = .32), or year of randomization (P = .98). Poorer survival in understaged patients was explained by the underlying pTNM stage. Clinical staging failed to detect T4 disease in 10% of cases and misclassified nodal disease in 38%. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates suboptimal agreement between clinical and pathologic staging. Discrepancies between clinical and pathologic T and N staging could have led to different treatment decisions in 10% and 38% of cases, respectively. There is therefore a need for further research into improving staging accuracy for patients with stage I-IIIa NSCLC.

Nayak, A., et al. (2018). "Legacy effects of statins on cardiovascular and all-cause mortality: a meta-analysis." BMJ Open 8(9): e020584.
	OBJECTIVES: To assess evidence for 'legacy' (post-trial) effects on cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality and all-cause mortality among adult participants of placebo-controlled randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of statins. DESIGN: Meta-analysis of aggregate data. SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Placebo-controlled statin RCTS for primary and secondary CVD prevention. METHODS: Data sources: PubMed, Embase from inception and forward citations of Cholesterol Treatment Trialists' Collaborators RCTs to 16 June 2016. STUDY SELECTION: Two independent reviewers identified all statin RCT follow-up reports including >/=1000 participants, and cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. DATA EXTRACTION AND SYNTHESIS: Two independent reviewers extracted data in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines. MAIN OUTCOMES: Post-trial CVD and all-cause mortality. RESULTS: We included eight trials, with mean post-trial follow-up ranging from 1.6 to 15.1 years, and including 13 781 post-trial deaths (6685 CVD). Direct effects of statins within trials were greater than legacy effects post-trials. The pooled data from all eight studies showed no evidence overall of legacy effects on CVD mortality, but some evidence of legacy effects on all-cause mortality (p=0.01). Exploratory subgroup analysis found possible differences in legacy effect for primary prevention trials compared with secondary prevention trials for both CVD mortality (p=0.15) and all-cause mortality (p=0.02). Pooled post-trial HR for the three primary prevention studies demonstrated possible post-trial legacy effects on CVD mortality (HR=0.87; 95% CI 0.79 to 0.95) and on all-cause mortality (HR=0.90; 95% CI 0.85 to 0.96). CONCLUSIONS: Possible post-trial statin legacy effects on all-cause mortality appear to be driven by the primary prevention studies. Although these relative benefits were smaller than those observed within the trial, the absolute benefits may be similar for the two time periods. Analysis of individual patient data from follow-up studies after placebo-controlled statin RCTs in lower-risk populations may provide more definitive evidence on whether early treatment of subclinical atherosclerosis is likely to be beneficial.

Nelson, H. D., et al. (2016). U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic Evidence Reviews. Screening for Breast Cancer: A Systematic Review to Update the 2009 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Recommendation. Rockville (MD), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US).
	BACKGROUND: In 2009, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommended biennial screening mammography for women age 50 to 74 years, and based decisions for earlier screening on individual patient context and values. Evidence was insufficient to recommend screening beyond age 75. PURPOSE: To systematically update the 2009 USPSTF review on screening for breast cancer in average risk women age 40 years and older. DATA SOURCES: The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (through December 2014), Ovid MEDLINE (through December 2014), and reference lists were searched for relevant studies. Additional data were obtained from investigators of randomized trials and from the Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials and observational studies of breast cancer screening in asymptomatic women age 40 and older reporting breast cancer mortality, all-cause mortality, advanced breast cancer, treatment morbidity, and the harms of screening. DATA EXTRACTION: One investigator abstracted data and a second investigator confirmed accuracy. Investigators independently dual-rated study quality and applicability using established criteria. Discrepancies were resolved through a consensus process. DATA SYNTHESIS: A meta-analysis of screening trials with updated data from the Canadian (CNBSS-1 and CNBSS-2), Swedish Two-County Study, and Age trials indicated breast cancer mortality reductions for age 39 to 49 years (relative risk [RR] 0.88; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.73 to 1.003; 9 trials; 4 deaths prevented/10,000 over 10 years); 50 to 59 years (RR 0.86 [95% CI, 0.68 to 0.97]; 7 trials; 8/10,000); 60 to 69 years (RR 0.67 [95% CI, 0.54 to 0.83]; 21/10,000); and 70 to 74 years (RR 0.80 [95% CI, 0.51 to 1.28]; 3 trials; 13/10,000). Risk reduction was 25 to 31 percent for women age 50 to 69 years across several observational studies, with similar reductions for women age 40 to 49 in two studies. Trials indicated no statistically significant reductions in all-cause mortality with screening. Risk for higher-stage breast cancer was reduced for age 50 years and older (RR 0.62 [95% CI, 0.46 to 0.83]; 3 trials), but not for age 39 to 49 years (RR 0.98 [95% CI, 0.74 to 1.37]; 4 trials). The majority of cases from screening were ductal carcinoma in situ and early stage, and screening resulted in more mastectomies (RR 1.20 [95% CI, 1.11 to 1.30]; 5 trials) and radiation (RR 1.32 [95% CI, 1.16 to 1.50]; 2 trials). Younger women and those with risk factors had more false-positive results and recommendations for additional imaging and biopsies. Cumulative rates for false-positive mammography results over 10 years were 61 percent for annual and 42 percent for biennial screening; rates for biopsy were 7 to 9 percent for annual and 5 to 6 percent for biennial screening. Estimates of overdiagnosis ranged from 11 to 22 percent in trials; and 1 to 10 percent in observational studies. Some women with false-positive results or pain experienced distress and were less likely to return for their next mammogram. Tomosynthesis with mammography reduced recalls (16/1000), but increased biopsies (1.3/1000) and cancer detection (1.2/1,000). The number of deaths due to radiation induced cancer from screening with digital mammography was estimated through modeling as between 2 to 11 per 100,000 depending on age at onset and screening intervals. LIMITATIONS: Limited to English-language articles; the number, quality, and applicability of studies varied widely. Trials of mammography screening reflect imaging technologies and cancer treatment therapies that are not currently in use. Studies are lacking on screening effectiveness based on risk factors, intervals, and modalities; and on screening modalities relevant to women who are not high-risk. CONCLUSIONS: Breast cancer mortality is reduced with mammography screening, although estimates are of borderline statistical significance, the magnitudes of effect are small for younger ages, and results vary depending on how cases were accrued in trials. Higher stage tumors are also reduced with screening for age 50 years and older. False-positive results are common in all age groups, and are higher for younger women and those with risk factors. Approximately 11 to 22 percent of cases may be overdiagnosed. Observational studies indicate that tomosynthesis with mammography reduces recalls, but increases biopsies and cancer detection. Mammography screening at any age is a tradeoff of a continuum of benefits and harms.

Neudorf, U., et al. (2018). "Cardio-toxicity in childhood cancer survivors "Cure is not enough"." J Thorac Dis 10(Suppl 35): S4344-s4350.
	The number of pediatric cancer survivors is growing, and they are getting older. Therapy-induced cardiotoxicity therefore is debated as an ongoing problem. Recognition of the side effects in the use of anthracyclines and radiation as well as the patients' clinical condition and comorbidities leads back as far as the beginning of systematic cancer treatment in children in the 1980s. Since, numerous case reports, meta-analyses and retrospective surveys were published worldwide. However, randomized clinical trials with standardized protocols yet fail to be designed. This article gives an overview of the recent reports and emphasizes on the heterogeneity of the different approaches. A standardized work-up which may identify the patient at risk-including the patient's history and condition, individual genetic dispositions, dosage and method of drug application, consideration of co-medication, radiation therapy and dose, standardized imaging methods-is the main proposition of our report. The fusion of already established sources, e.g., data of different registries or study centers, might help to create preventive strategies for and a better understanding of patients with therapy induced cardiomyopathy.

Norman, J. E., et al. (2018). "Does progesterone prophylaxis to prevent preterm labour improve outcome? A randomised double-blind placebo-controlled trial (OPPTIMUM)." Health Technol Assess 22(35): 1-304.
	BACKGROUND: Progesterone prophylaxis is widely used to prevent preterm birth but is not licensed and there is little information on long-term outcome. OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of progesterone prophylaxis in women at high risk of preterm birth on obstetric, neonatal and childhood outcomes. DESIGN: Double-blind, randomised placebo-controlled trial. SETTING: Obstetric units in the UK and Europe between February 2009 and April 2013. PARTICIPANTS: Women with a singleton pregnancy who are at high risk of preterm birth because of either a positive fibronectin test or a negative fibronectin test, and either previous spontaneous birth at </= 34 weeks(+0) of gestation or a cervical length of </= 25 mm. INTERVENTIONS: Fibronectin test at 18(+0) to 23(+0) weeks of pregnancy to determine risk of preterm birth. Eligible women were allocated (using a web-based randomisation portal) to 200 mg of progesterone or placebo, taken vaginally daily from 22(+0) to 24(+0) until 34(+0) weeks' gestation. Participants, caregivers and those assessing the outcomes were blinded to group assignment until data collection was complete. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: There were three primary outcomes, as follows: (1) obstetric - fetal death or delivery before 34(+0) weeks' gestation; (2) neonatal - a composite of death, brain injury on ultrasound scan (according to specific criteria in the protocol) and bronchopulmonary dysplasia; and (3) childhood - the Bayley-III cognitive composite score at 22-26 months of age. RESULTS: In total, 96 out of 600 (16%) women in the progesterone group and 108 out of 597 (18%) women in the placebo group had the primary obstetric outcome [odds ratio (OR) 0.86, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.61 to 1.22]. Forty-six out of 589 (8%) babies of women in the progesterone group and 62 out of 587 (11%) babies of women in the placebo group experienced the primary neonatal outcome [OR 0.72, 95% CI 0.44 to 1.17]. The mean Bayley-III cognitive composite score of the children at 2 years of age was 97.3 points [standard deviation (SD) 17.9 points; n = 430] in the progesterone group and 97.7 points (SD 17.5 points; n = 439) in the placebo group (difference in means -0.48, 95% CI -2.77 to 1.81). LIMITATIONS: Overall compliance with the intervention was 69%. HARMS: There were no major harms, although there was a trend of more deaths from trial entry to 2 years in the progesterone group (20/600) than in the placebo group (16/598) (OR 1.26, 95% CI 0.65 to 2.42). CONCLUSIONS: In this study, progesterone had no significant beneficial or harmful effects on the primary obstetric, neonatal or childhood outcomes.The OPPTIMUM trial is now complete. We intend to participate in a comprehensive individual patient-level data meta-analysis examining women with a singleton pregnancy with a variety of risk factors for preterm birth. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN14568373. FUNDING: This trial was funded by the Medical Research Council (MRC) and managed by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) on behalf of the MRC-NIHR partnership.

Noshchenko, A., et al. (2017). "Spinopelvic Parameters in Asymptomatic Subjects Without Spine Disease and Deformity: A Systematic Review With Meta-Analysis." Clin Spine Surg 30(9): 392-403.
	STUDY DESIGN: A systematic review with meta-analysis. OBJECTIVE: To combine published data, focusing on the development of optimal spinopelvic parameters in adult asymptomatic subjects without spine deformity while taking into consideration the impact of potential confounders. SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: A well-grounded approach to define the optimal spinopelvic parameters is necessary for planning surgical correction of spine deformity. MATERIALS: Selection criteria: (1) randomized and nonrandomized prospective, cross-sectional, and retrospective studies; (2) participants: asymptomatic subjects without spine deformity aged above 18 years; (3) studied parameters: lumbar lordosis (LL), pelvic incidence, sacral slope, and pelvic tilt; (4) potential confounders: method of measurement, sex, age, ethnicity, weight, height, and body mass index. Search method: Ovid MEDLINE (1946-current) and EMBASE (1980-current), all years through October 2015 were included. Data were collected: number of enrolled subjects, means of the studied characteristics, SD, SE of the means, 95% confidence intervals. A meta-analysis was performed to evaluate the pooled means and range of optimal values (pooled mean+/-pooled SD) taking into consideration the impact of confounders. The GRADE approach was applied to evaluate the level of evidence. RESULTS: Seventeen of 1018 studies were included (2926 subjects from 9 countries). The pooled means and the optimal ranges were: LL (L1-S1), 54.6 (42-67) degrees; LL (L1-L5), 37.0 (22-53) degrees; pelvic incidence, 50.6 (39-62) degrees; sacral slope, 37.7 (28-48) degrees; pelvic tilt, 12.6 (3-22) degrees. The pooled results were statistically significant (P<0.001), but heterogeneous. Impact of the following confounders was revealed: method of measurement, ethnicity, age, and body mass index. A methodology was created to define an individualized optimal value and range of each studied parameter taking into consideration the influence of confounders. CONCLUSIONS: The pooled results and developed methodology can be used as diagnostic criteria for evaluation of the spinopelvic parameters, planning of surgical interventions and evaluation of the treatment effect.

Omae, K., et al. (2017). "Comparative efficacy and safety of bone-modifying agents for the treatment of bone metastases in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma: a systematic review and meta-analysis." Oncotarget 8(40): 68890-68898.
	OBJECTIVE: To determine the comparative efficacy and safety of all available bone-modifying agents (BMAs) for the treatment of bone metastases in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC). RESULTS: Three studies (259 patients) were identified for the systematic review. Two studies that compared zoledronic acid with placebo or no zoledronic acid showed that zoledronic acid reduced the risk of skeletal-related events (SREs) by 68% (pooled hazard ratio [HR]: 0.32; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.19-0.55). The quality of evidence was moderate. The incidence of serious adverse events (AEs) was identical (80%) for both treatment arms in one study and not reported in the other study. In the third study that compared denosumab and zoledronic acid among patients with solid tumors or myeloma, a post-hoc subgroup analysis with individual patient data (155 patients) showed an HR of 0.71 (95% CI: 0.43-1.17) for SREs and a risk ratio of 0.86 (95% CI: 0.68-1.08) for serious AEs for denosumab compared to zoledronic acid. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched the MEDLINE database, Cochrane Library, WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and ClinicalTrials.gov database up to January 2017 without language restriction. Only randomized controlled trials were included. When relevant data were missing, we contacted the investigators of the original study. The Grading of Recommendation Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach was used to assess the evidence certainty. CONCLUSIONS: Our moderate-quality evidence indicates that zoledronic acid significantly reduces SREs risk among patients with bone metastases of RCC.

Onland, W., et al. (2017). "Systemic corticosteroid regimens for prevention of bronchopulmonary dysplasia in preterm infants." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 1: Cd010941.
	BACKGROUND: Cochrane systematic reviews show that systemic postnatal corticosteroids reduce the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants. However, corticosteroids have also been associated with an increased risk of neurodevelopmental impairment. It is unknown whether these beneficial and adverse effects are modulated by differences in corticosteroid treatment regimens. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of different corticosteroid treatment regimens on mortality, pulmonary morbidity, and neurodevelopmental outcome in very low birth weight (VLBW) infants. SEARCH METHODS: We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review group to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2) in the Cochrane Library (searched 21 March 2016), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 21 March 2016), Embase (1980 to 21 March 2016), and CINAHL (1982 to 21 March 2016). We also searched clinical trials' databases, conference proceedings, and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomized controlled trials. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing two or more different treatment regimens of systemic postnatal corticosteroids in preterm infants at risk for BPD, as defined by the original trialists. Studies investigating one treatment regimen of systemic corticosteroids to a placebo or studies using inhalation corticosteroids were excluded. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed eligibility and quality of trials and extracted data on study design, participant characteristics and the relevant outcomes. We asked the original investigators to verify if data extraction was correct and, if possible, to provide any missing data. The primary outcomes to be assessed were: mortality at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age (PMA) or at hospital discharge; BPD defined as oxygen dependency at 36 weeks' PMA; long-term neurodevelopmental sequelae, including cerebral palsy, measured by the Bayley Mental Developmental Index (MDI); and blindness or poor vision. Secondary outcomes were: duration of mechanical ventilation and failure to extubate at day 3 and 7 after initiating therapy; rescue treatment with corticosteroids outside the study period; and the incidence of hypertension, sepsis and hyperglycemia during hospitalizations. Data were analyzed using Review Manager 5 (RevMan 5). We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of evidence. MAIN RESULTS: Fourteen studies were included in this review. Only RCTs investigating dexamethasone were identified. Eight studies enrolling a total of 303 participants investigated the cumulative dosage administered; three studies contrasted a high versus a moderate and five studies a moderate versus a low cumulative dexamethasone dose.Analysis of the studies investigating a moderate dexamethasone dose versus a high-dosage regimen showed an increased risk of BPD (typical risk ratio (RR) 1.50, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01 to 2.22; typical risk difference (RD) 0.26, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.49; number needed to treat for an additional harmful outcome (NNTH) 4, 95% CI 1.9 to 23.3; I(2) = 0%, 2 studies, 55 infants) as well as an increased risk of abnormal neurodevelopmental outcome (typical RR 8.33, 95% CI 1.63 to 42.48; RD 0.30, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.46; NNTH 4, 95% CI 2.2 to 7.3; I(2) = 68%, 2 studies, 74 infants) when using a moderate cumulative-dosage regimen. The composite outcomes of death or BPD and death or abnormal neurodevelopmental outcome showed similar results although the former only reached borderline significance.There were no differences in outcomes between a moderate- and a low-dosage regimen.Four other studies enrolling 762 infants investigated early initiation of dexamethasone therapy versus a moderately early or delayed initiation and showed no significant differences in the primary outcomes. The two RCTs investigating a continuous versus a pulse dexamethasone regimen showed an increased risk of the combined outcome death or BPD when using the pulse therapy. Finally, two trials investigating a standard regimen versus a participant-individualized course of dexamethasone showed no difference in the primary outcome and long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes.The quality of evidence for all comparisons discussed above was assessed as low or very low, because the validity of all comparisons is hampered by small samples of randomized infants, heterogeneity in study population and design, non-protocolized use of 'rescue' corticosteroids and lack of long-term neurodevelopmental data in most studies. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Despite the fact that some studies reported a modulating effect of treatment regimens in favor of higher-dosage regimens on the incidence of BPD and neurodevelopmental impairment, recommendations on the optimal type of corticosteroid, the optimal dosage, or the optimal timing of initiation for the prevention of BPD in preterm infants cannot be made based on current level of evidence. A well-designed large RCT is urgently needed to establish the optimal systemic postnatal corticosteroid dosage regimen.

Palmerini, T., et al. (2017). "Bleeding-Related Deaths in Relation to the Duration of Dual-Antiplatelet Therapy After Coronary Stenting." J Am Coll Cardiol 69(16): 2011-2022.
	BACKGROUND: Although some randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and meta-analyses have suggested that prolonged dual-antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) may be associated with increased mortality, the mechanistic underpinnings of this association remain unclear. OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to analyze the associations among bleeding, mortality, and DAPT duration after drug-eluting stent implantation in a meta-analysis of RCTs. METHODS: RCTs comparing different DAPT durations after drug-eluting stent placement were sought through the MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane databases and the proceedings of international meetings. Deaths were considered possibly bleeding related if occurring within 1 year of the episodes of bleeding. Primary analysis was by intention-to-treat. Secondary analysis was performed in a modified intention-to-treat population in which events occurring when all patients were on DAPT were excluded. RESULTS: Individual patient data were obtained for 6 RCTs, and aggregate data were available for 12 RCTs. Patients with bleeding had significantly higher rates of mortality compared with those without, and in a time-adjusted multivariate analysis, bleeding was an independent predictor of mortality occurring within 1 year of the bleeding episode (hazard ratio: 6.93; 95% confidence interval: 4.53 to 10.60; p < 0.0001). Shorter DAPT was associated with lower rates of all-cause death compared with longer DAPT (hazard ratio: 0.85; 95% confidence interval: 0.73 to 1.00; p = 0.05), which was driven by lower rates of bleeding-related deaths with shorter DAPT compared with prolonged DAPT (hazard ratio: 0.65; 95% confidence interval: 0.43 to 0.99; p = 0.04). Mortality unrelated to bleeding was comparable between the 2 groups. Similar results were apparent in the modified intention-to-treat population. CONCLUSIONS: Bleeding was strongly associated with the occurrence of mortality within 1 year after the bleeding event. Shorter compared with longer DAPT was associated with lower risk for bleeding-related death, a finding that may underlie the lower all-cause mortality with shorter DAPT in the RCTs of different DAPT durations after DES.

Pan, J., et al. (2018). "Stereotactic radiosurgery for central nervous system hemangioblastoma: systematic review and meta-analysis." J Neurooncol 137(1): 11-22.
	Hemangioblastomas are rare, benign, vascular tumors of the central nervous system (CNS), often associated with von-hippel lindau (VHL) disease. Current therapeutic options include microsurgical resection or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). With no randomized controlled studies and minimal data beyond single-institution reviews, the optimal management approach for patients with CNS hemangioblastomas is unclear. We completed a Pubmed/SCOPUS literature search from January 1990 to January 2017 for eligible studies on SRS for CNS hemangioblastomas. Relevant articles were identified and reviewed in accordance to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis (PRISMA) guidelines. 26 studies met eligibility criteria for qualitative synthesis, representing 596 subjects and 1535 tumors. The Gamma Knife was the most published SRS method for CNS hemangioblastomas. After critical study appraisal for intra-study bias, 14 studies were used for quantitative meta-analysis of 5-year progression free survival (PFS). The pooled 5-year PFS across all eligible studies was 88.4%. No difference was observed between spine versus intracranial studies. Individual patient data (IPD) was extracted from 14 studies, representing 322 tumors. Univariate analysis of IPD revealed that VHL patients were younger, and had smaller tumors compared to those with sporadic disease. Adverse events were associated with increasing marginal dose, independent of tumor volume. VHL status, sex, radiosurgical method, tumor location, and tumor volume were not found to be significantly associated with tumor progression. Multiple studies show excellent tumor control at 5-year follow up, however, the long-term efficacy of SRS for CNS hemangioblastomas still needs to be investigated, and the studies exploring the role of SRS for early treatment of asymptomatic lesions is wanting.

Panagiotou, O. A., et al. (2019). "Smoking Cessation Pharmacotherapy Based on Genetically-Informed Biomarkers: What is the Evidence?" Nicotine Tob Res 21(9): 1289-1293.
	INTRODUCTION: Pharmacogenomic studies have used genetic variants to identify smokers likely to respond to pharmacological treatments for smoking cessation. METHODS: We performed a systematic review and meta-analysis of primary and secondary analyses of trials of smoking cessation pharmacotherapies. Eligible were trials with data on a priori selected single nucleotide polymorphisms, replicated non-single nucleotide polymorphisms, and/or the nicotine metabolite ratio. We estimated the genotype x treatment interaction as the ratio of risk ratios (RRR) for treatment effects across genotype groups. RESULTS: We identified 18 trials (N = 9017 participants), including 40 active (bupropion, nicotine replacement therapy [NRT], varenicline, or combination therapies) versus placebo comparisons and 16 active versus active comparisons. There was statistical evidence of heterogeneity across rs16969968 genotypes in CHRNA5 with regard to both 6-month abstinence and end-of-treatment abstinence in non-Hispanic black smokers and end-of-treatment abstinence in non-Hispanic white smokers. There was also heterogeneity across rs1051730 genotypes in CHRNA3 with regard to end-of-treatment abstinence in non-Hispanic white smokers. There was no clear statistical evidence for other genotype-by-treatment combinations. Compared with placebo, NRT was more effective among non-Hispanic black smokers with rs16969968-GG with regard to both 6-month abstinence (RRR for GG vs. GA or AA, 3.51; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.19 to 10.30) and end-of-treatment abstinence (RRR for GG vs. GA or AA, 5.84; 95% CI = 1.89 to 18.10). Among non-Hispanic white smokers, NRT effectiveness relative to placebo was comparable across rs1051730 and rs169969960 genotypes. CONCLUSIONS: We did not identify widespread differential effects of smoking cessation pharmacotherapies based on genotype. The quality of the evidence is generally moderate. IMPLICATIONS: Although we identified some evidence of genotype x treatment interactions, the vast majority of analyses did not provide evidence of differential treatment response by genotype. Where we find some evidence, these results should be considered preliminary and interpreted with caution because of the small number of contributing trials per genotype comparison, the wide confidence intervals, and the moderate quality of evidence. Prospective trials and individual-patient data meta-analyses accounting for heterogeneity of treatment effects through modeling are needed to assess the clinical utility of genetically informed biomarkers to guide pharmacotherapy choice for smoking cessation.

Parnetti, L. and P. Eusebi (2018). "Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in Alzheimer's Disease: An Invaluable Tool for Clinical Diagnosis and Trial Enrichment." J Alzheimers Dis 64(s1): S281-s287.
	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder, affecting around 35 million people worldwide. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers entered the diagnostic criteria as support for early diagnosis. The classical biochemical signature of AD includes total tau (T-tau), phosphorylated tau (P-tau), and the 42 amino acid peptide (Abeta42) of amyloid-beta. Recent observations suggest that the use of CSF Abeta42:Abeta40 ratio rather than CSF Abeta42 alone could contribute to reduce inter-laboratory variation in Abeta values and increasing diagnostic performance of the CSF AD biomarkers in routine practice. However, research efforts aimed at enriching the CSF biomarker panel are ongoing. The CSF AD signature is also crucial for the design of clinical trials for AD, since it best guarantees AD pathology as the cause of cognitive impairment. Accordingly, CSF biomarkers have been now reported in the inclusion criteria of Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III clinical trials as enrichment strategy. So far, one of the most important reasons for the failure of AD clinical trials was the inclusion of participants with unlikely AD pathology. In order to implement the use of CSF biomarkers in AD routine diagnostic work-up and as accepted strategy for enriching trial populations, inter-laboratory variability should be minimized. Increasing efforts should also be devoted to promote data sharing practices, encouraging individual participant data meta-analyses.

Pasceri, V., et al. (2018). "Net clinical benefit of patent foramen ovale closure in patients with cryptogenic stroke: Meta-analysis and meta-regression of randomized trials." Int J Cardiol 266: 75-80.
	BACKGROUND: Controlled randomized trials (CRTs) comparing the efficacy of patent foramen ovale (PFO) closure and medical therapy in patients with cryptogenic stroke have yielded heterogeneous results. No data are available on the net clinical benefit with the two strategies. METHODS: We pooled data of 3440 patients enrolled in five CRTs, randomized to PFO closure (n=1829) or medical therapy (n=1611) and followed for a mean of 4.1years. RESULTS: The net composite endpoint of stroke, major bleeding or atrial fibrillation (AF)/flutter was not different among PFO closure and medical therapy (OR 1.06; 95% CI 0.63-1.77; p=0.83). PFO closure was associated with similar bleeding rates and with a significant 59% relative reduction of recurrent stroke versus medical therapy; in the intervention group this stroke prevention was counterbalanced by a significant 4.7-fold higher risk of AF/flutter. Meta-regression analysis showed that odds ratios for the net composite endpoint were related to prevalence of severe shunt at baseline (p=0.002), percentage of procedural success (p=0.002), stroke incidence in the medical therapy arm (p=0.012) and to follow-up duration (p=0.001). CONCLUSIONS: This study-level meta-analysis of CRTs demonstrates that, compared to medical therapy, PFO closure prevents recurrent ischemic cerebral events, but increases the risk of AF/flutter in patients with cryptogenic stroke; as a result, the net clinical benefit with the two strategies was similar. Our results support an individualized therapeutic approach, tailored on the evaluation of the patient's risks (anatomical PFO risk, clinical risk of recurrent stroke, bleeding risk, and risk of AF).

Pavlov, C. S., et al. (2017). "Glucocorticosteroids for people with alcoholic hepatitis." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 11: Cd001511.
	BACKGROUND: Alcoholic hepatitis is a form of alcoholic liver disease, characterised by steatosis, necroinflammation, fibrosis, and potential complications to the liver disease. Typically, alcoholic hepatitis presents in people between 40 and 50 years of age. Alcoholic hepatitis can be resolved if people abstain from drinking, but the risk of death will depend on the severity of the liver damage and abstinence from alcohol. Glucocorticosteroids are used as anti-inflammatory drugs for people with alcoholic hepatitis. Glucocorticosteroids have been studied extensively in randomised clinical trials in order to assess their benefits and harms. However, the results have been contradictory. OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of glucocorticosteroids in people with alcoholic hepatitis. SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials through electronic searches in Cochrane Hepato-Biliary's (CHB) Controlled Trials Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, and Science Citation Index Expanded. We looked for ongoing or unpublished trials in clinical trials registers and pharmaceutical company sources. We also scanned reference lists of the studies retrieved. The last search was 20 October 2016. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials assessing glucocorticosteroids versus placebo or no intervention in people with alcoholic hepatitis, irrespective of year, language of publication, or format. We considered trials with adult participants diagnosed with alcoholic hepatitis, which could have been established through clinical or biochemical diagnostic criteria or both. We defined alcoholic hepatitis as mild (Maddrey's score less than 32) and severe (Maddrey's score 32 or more). We allowed co-interventions in the trial groups, provided they were similar. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We followed Cochrane and CHB methodology, performing the meta-analyses using Review Manager 5 and Trial Sequential Analysis. We presented the results of dichotomous outcomes as risk ratios (RR) and those of the continuous outcomes as mean difference (MD). We applied both the fixed-effect model and the random-effects model meta-analyses. Whenever there were significant discrepancies in the results, we reported the more conservative point estimate of the two. We considered a P value of 0.01 or less, two-tailed, as statistically significant if the required information size was reached due to our three primary outcomes (all-cause mortality, health-related quality of life, and serious adverse events during treatment) and our post hoc decision to include analyses of mortality at more time points. We presented heterogeneity using the I(2) statistic. If trialists used intention-to-treat analysis to deal with missing data, we used these data in our primary analysis; otherwise, we used the available data. We assessed the bias risk of the trials using bias risk domains and the quality of the evidence using GRADE. MAIN RESULTS: Sixteen trials fulfilled the inclusion criteria. All trials were at high risk of bias. Fifteen trials provided data for analysis (927 participants received glucocorticosteroids and 934 participants received placebo or no intervention). The glucocorticosteroids were administered orally or parenterally for a median of 28 days (range 3 days to 12 weeks). The participants were between 25 and 70 years old, had different stages of alcoholic liver disease, and 65% were men. The follow-up of trial participants, when it was reported, was up to the moment of discharge from the hospital, until they died (a median of 63 days), or for at least a year. There was no evidence of effect of glucocorticosteroids on all-cause mortality up to three months following randomisation neither with traditional meta-analysis (random-effects RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.70 to 1.15; participants = 1861; trials = 15; I(2) = 45% (moderate heterogeneity) nor with Trial Sequential Analysis. Meta-analysis showed no evidence of effect on health-related quality of life up to three months (MD -0.04 points; 95% CI -0.11 to 0.03; participants = 377; trial = 1; low-quality evidence), measured with the European Quality of Life - 5 Dimensions-3 Levels (EQ- 5D-3L) scale. There was no evidence of effect on the occurrence of serious adverse events during treatment, neither with traditional meta-analysis (random-effects RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.85 to 1.29; participants = 1861; trials = 15; I(2) = 36% (moderate heterogeneity), liver-related mortality up to three months following randomisation (random-effects RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.69 to 1.14; participants = 1861; trials = 15; I(2) = 46% (moderate heterogeneity), frequency of any complications up to three months following randomisation (random-effects RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.27; participants = 1861; I(2) = 42% (moderate heterogeneity), and frequency of non-serious adverse events up to three months' follow-up after end of treatment (random-effects RR 1.99, 95% CI 0.72 to 5.48; participants = 160; trials = 4; I(2) = 0% (no heterogeneity) nor with Trial Sequential Analysis. Nine of the trials were industry-funded. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence of a difference between glucocorticosteroids and placebo or no intervention on all-cause mortality, health-related quality of life, and serious adverse events during treatment. The risk of bias was high and the quality of evidence was very low or low. Therefore, we are very uncertain about this effect estimate. Due to inadequate reporting, we cannot exclude increases in adverse events. As the confidence intervals were wide, we cannot rule out significant benefits and harms of glucocorticosteroids. Therefore, we need placebo-controlled, randomised clinical trials, designed according to the SPIRIT guidelines and reported according to the CONSORT guidelines. Future trials ought to report depersonalised individual participant data, so that proper individual participant data meta-analyses of the effects of glucocorticosteroids in subgroups can be conducted.

Pavlov, C. S., et al. (2019). "Glucocorticosteroids for people with alcoholic hepatitis." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 4: Cd001511.
	BACKGROUND: Alcoholic hepatitis is a form of alcoholic liver disease characterised by steatosis, necroinflammation, fibrosis, and complications to the liver. Typically, alcoholic hepatitis presents in people between 40 and 50 years of age. Alcoholic hepatitis can be resolved if people abstain from drinking, but the risk of death will depend on the severity of the liver damage and abstinence from alcohol. Glucocorticosteroids have been studied extensively in randomised clinical trials to assess their benefits and harms. However, the results have been contradictory. OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of glucocorticosteroids in people with alcoholic hepatitis. SEARCH METHODS: We identified trials through electronic searches in Cochrane Hepato-Biliary's (CHB) Controlled Trials Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, and Science Citation Index Expanded. We looked for ongoing or unpublished trials in clinical trials registers and pharmaceutical company sources. We also scanned reference lists of the studies retrieved. The last search was 18 January 2019. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised clinical trials assessing glucocorticosteroids versus placebo or no intervention in people with alcoholic hepatitis, irrespective of year, language of publication, or format. We considered trials with adults diagnosed with alcoholic hepatitis, which could have been established through clinical or biochemical diagnostic criteria or both. We defined alcoholic hepatitis as mild (Maddrey's score less than 32) and severe (Maddrey's score 32 or more). We allowed cointerventions in the trial groups, provided they were similar. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We followed Cochrane methodology, performing the meta-analyses using Review Manager 5. We presented the results of dichotomous outcomes as risk ratios (RR) and of continuous outcomes as mean difference (MD), with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We used both the fixed-effect and the random-effects models for meta-analyses. Whenever there were significant discrepancies in the results, we reported the more conservative point estimate of the two. We considered a P value of 0.01 or less, two-tailed, as statistically significant if the required information size was reached for our three primary outcomes (all-cause mortality, health-related quality of life, and serious adverse events during treatment) and our post hoc decision to include analyses of mortality at more time points. We presented heterogeneity using the I(2) statistic. If trialists used intention-to-treat analysis to deal with missing data, we used these data in our primary analysis; otherwise, we used the available data. We assessed the bias risk of the trials using bias risk domains and the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. MAIN RESULTS: Sixteen trials fulfilled our inclusion criteria. All trials but one were at overall high risk of bias. Fifteen trials (one of which was an abstract) provided data for analysis (927 participants received glucocorticosteroids and 934 participants received placebo or no intervention). Glucocorticosteroids were administered orally or parenterally for a median 28 days (range 3 days to 12 weeks). The participants were between 25 and 70 years old, had different stages of alcoholic liver disease, and 65% were men. Follow-up, when reported, was up to the moment of discharge from the hospital, until they died (median of 63 days), or for at least one year. There was no evidence of effect of glucocorticosteroids on all-cause mortality up to three months following randomisation (random-effects RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.70 to 1.15; participants = 1861; trials = 15; very low-certainty evidence) or on health-related quality of life up to three months, measured with the European Quality of Life - 5 Dimensions - 3 Levels scale (MD -0.04 points, 95% CI -0.11 to 0.03; participants = 377; trial = 1; low-certainty evidence). There was no evidence of effect on the occurrence of serious adverse events during treatment (random-effects RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.85 to 1.29; participants = 1861; trials = 15; very low-certainty evidence), liver-related mortality up to three months following randomisation (random-effects RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.69 to 1.14; participants = 1861; trials = 15; very low-certainty evidence), number of participants with any complications up to three months following randomisation (random-effects RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.27; participants = 1861; very low-certainty evidence), and number of participants of non-serious adverse events up to three months' follow-up after end of treatment (random-effects RR 1.99, 95% CI 0.72 to 5.48; participants = 160; trials = 4; very low-certainty evidence). Based on the information that we collected from the published trial reports, only one of the trials seems not to be industry-funded, and the remaining 15 trials did not report clearly whether they were partly or completely funded by the industry. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We are very uncertain about the effect estimate of no difference between glucocorticosteroids and placebo or no intervention on all-cause mortality and serious adverse events during treatment because the certainty of evidence was very low, and low for health-related quality of life. Due to inadequate reporting, we cannot exclude increases in adverse events. As the CIs were wide, we cannot rule out significant benefits or harms of glucocorticosteroids. Therefore, we need placebo-controlled randomised clinical trials, designed according to the SPIRIT guidelines and reported according to the CONSORT guidelines. Future trials ought to report depersonalised individual participant data, so that proper individual participant data meta-analyses of the effects of glucocorticosteroids in subgroups can be conducted.

Peckham, E. J., et al. (2019). "Homeopathy for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 9: Cd009710.
	BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common, chronic disorder that leads to decreased health-related quality of life and work productivity. A previous version of this review was not able to draw firm conclusions about the effectiveness of homeopathic treatment for IBS and recommended that further high quality RCTs were conducted to explore the clinical and cost effectiveness of homeopathic treatment for IBS. Two types of homeopathic treatment were evaluated in this systematic review: 1. Clinical homeopathy where a specific remedy is prescribed for a specific condition; 2. Individualised homeopathic treatment, where a homeopathic remedy based on a person's individual symptoms is prescribed after a detailed consultation. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness and safety of homeopathic treatment for IBS. SEARCH METHODS: For this update we searched MEDLINE, CENTRAL, Embase, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED), the Cochrane IBD Group Specialised Register and trials registers from inception to 31 August 2018. SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cohort and case-control studies that compared homeopathic treatment with placebo, other control treatments, or usual care, in adults with IBS were considered for inclusion. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently assessed the risk of bias and extracted data. The primary outcome was global improvement in IBS as measured by an IBS symptom severity score. Secondary outcomes included quality of life, abdominal pain, stool frequency, stool consistency, and adverse events. The overall certainty of the evidence supporting the primary and secondary outcomes was assessed using the GRADE criteria. We used the Cochrane risk of bias tool to assess risk of bias. We calculated the mean difference (MD) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for continuous outcomes and the risk ratio (RR) and 95% CI for dichotomous outcomes. MAIN RESULTS: Four RCTs (307 participants) were included. Two studies compared clinical homeopathy (homeopathic remedy, asafoetida or asafoetida plus nux vomica) to placebo for IBS with constipation (IBS-C). One study compared individualised homeopathic treatment (consultation plus remedy) to usual care for the treatment of IBS in female patients. One study was a three armed RCT comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to supportive listening or usual care. The risk of bias in three studies (the two studies assessing clinical homeopathy and the study comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to usual care) was unclear on most criteria and high for selective reporting in one of the clinical homeopathy studies. The three armed study comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to usual care and supportive listening was at low risk of bias in four of the domains and high risk of bias in two (performance bias and detection bias).A meta-analysis of the studies assessing clinical homeopathy, (171 participants with IBS-C) was conducted. At short-term follow-up of two weeks, global improvement in symptoms was experienced by 73% (46/63) of asafoetida participants compared to 45% (30/66) of placebo participants (RR 1.61, 95% CI 1.18 to 2.18; 2 studies, very low certainty evidence). In the other clinical homeopathy study at two weeks, 68% (13/19) of those in the asafoetida plus nux vomica arm and 52% (12/23) of those in the placebo arm experienced a global improvement in symptoms (RR 1.31, 95% CI 0.80 to 2.15; very low certainty evidence). In the study comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to usual care (N = 20), the mean global improvement score (feeling unwell) at 12 weeks was 1.44 + 4.55 (n = 9) in the individualised homeopathic treatment arm compared to 1.41 + 1.97 (n=11) in the usual care arm (MD 0.03; 95% CI -3.16 to 3.22; very low certainty evidence).In the study comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to usual care, the mean IBS symptom severity score at 6 months was 210.44 + 112.4 (n = 16) in the individualised homeopathic treatment arm compared to 237.3 + 110.22 (n = 60) in the usual care arm (MD -26.86, 95% CI -88.59 to 34.87; low certainty evidence). The mean quality of life score (EQ-5D) at 6 months in homeopathy participants was 69.07 (SD 17.35) compared to 63.41 (SD 23.31) in usual care participants (MD 5.66, 95% CI -4.69 to 16.01; low certainty evidence).For In the study comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to supportive listening, the mean IBS symptom severity score at 6 months was 210.44 + 112.4 (n = 16) in the individualised homeopathic treatment arm compared to 262 + 120.72 (n = 18) in the supportive listening arm (MD -51.56, 95% CI -129.94 to 26.82; very low certainty evidence). The mean quality of life score at 6 months in homeopathy participants was 69.07 (SD 17.35) compared to 63.09 (SD 24.38) in supportive listening participants (MD 5.98, 95% CI -8.13 to 20.09; very low certainty evidence).None of the included studies reported on abdominal pain, stool frequency, stool consistency, or adverse events. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The results for the outcomes assessed in this review are uncertain. Thus no firm conclusions regarding the effectiveness and safety of homeopathy for the treatment of IBS can be drawn. Further high quality, adequately powered RCTs are required to assess the efficacy and safety of clinical and individualised homeopathy for IBS compared to placebo or usual care.

Pedrazzoli, P., et al. (2015). "High-Dose Chemotherapy With Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for High-Risk Primary Breast Cancer." J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr 2015(51): 70-75.
	BACKGROUND: The efficacy of high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) and autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for breast cancer (BC) has been an area of intense controversy among the medical oncology community. Over the last decade, due to the presentation of negative results from early randomized studies, this approach has not longer been considered an option by the vast majority of medical oncologists. This article is aimed to clarify what happened and where we are now in this not exhausted field. METHODS: We critically revised the published literature regarding HDC in the setting of high-risk BC, including a recent meta-analysis using individual patient data from 15 randomized studies. RESULTS: A significant benefit by HDC in recurrence-free survival has been clearly documented in unselected patient populations. In HER2-negative population, particularly in the triple-negative disease, a positive effect of intensified therapy in overall survival is biologically plausible and supported by clinical evidence. Over the years HDC with support of adequate number of stem cells has become a safe treatment modality. CONCLUSIONS: The administration of higher doses of chemotherapy with stem cell support may still represent a therapeutic option (and not a recommendation) in selected BC patients. This approach should be investigated further.

Penson, P. E., et al. (2018). "Introducing the 'Drucebo' effect in statin therapy: a systematic review of studies comparing reported rates of statin-associated muscle symptoms, under blinded and open-label conditions." J Cachexia Sarcopenia Muscle 9(6): 1023-1033.
	BACKGROUND: The 'placebo effect' and 'nocebo effect' are phenomena whereby beneficial (placebo) or adverse (nocebo) effects result from the expectation that an inert substance will relieve or cause a particular symptom. These terms are often inappropriately applied to effects experienced on drug therapy. Quantifying the magnitude of placebo and nocebo effects in clinical trials is problematic because it requires a 'no treatment' arm. To overcome the difficulties associated with measuring the nocebo effect, and the fact that its definition refers to inert compounds, rather than drugs, we introduce the concept of 'drucebo' (a combination of DRUg and plaCEBO or noCEBO) to relate to beneficial or adverse effects of a drug, which result from expectation and are not pharmacologically caused by the drug. As an initial application of the concept, we have estimated the contribution of the drucebo effect to statin discontinuation and statin-induced muscle symptoms by performing a systematic review of randomized controlled trial of statin therapy. METHODS: This preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analysis-compliant systematic review was prospectively registered in PROSPERO (CRD42017082700). We searched PubMed and Cochrane Central from inception until 3 January 2018 using a search strategy designed to detect studies including the concepts (Statins AND Placebo AND muscle pain). We included studies that allowed us to quantify the drucebo effect for adverse muscle symptoms of statins by (i) comparing reported rates of muscle symptoms in blinded and unblinded phases of randomized controlled trials and (ii) comparing rates of muscle symptoms at baseline and during blinded therapy in trials that included patients with objectively confirmed statin intolerance at baseline. Extraction was performed by two researchers with disagreements settled by a third reviewer. RESULTS: Five studies allowed the estimation of the drucebo effect. All trials demonstrated an excess of side effects under open-label conditions. The contribution of the drucebo effect to statin-associated muscle pain ranged between 38% and 78%. The heterogeneity of study methods, outcomes, and reporting did not allow for quantitative synthesis (meta-analysis) of the results. CONCLUSIONS: The drucebo effect may be useful in evaluating the safety and efficacy of medicines. Diagnosis of the drucebo effect in patients presenting with statin intolerance will allow restoration of life-prolonging lipid-lowering therapy. Our study was limited by heterogeneity of included studies and lack of access to individual patient data. Further studies are necessary to better understand risk factors for and clinical management of the drucebo effect.

Pepine, C. J. and P. A. Gurbel (2017). "Cardiovascular safety of NSAIDs: Additional insights after PRECISION and point of view." Clin Cardiol 40(12): 1352-1356.
	Increasing numbers of patients with arthritis use nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), some for long periods. The relative cardiovascular safety of NSAID use is of considerable concern, particularly among patients with or at risk of cardiovascular disease. Until recently, the evidence base was limited to older trials with small sample sizes. The large-scale Prospective Randomized Evaluation of Celecoxib Integrated Safety vs Ibuprofen or Naproxen (PRECISION) trial and a recent Bayesian meta-analysis of individual patient data in nearly a half-million patients were undertaken to address some of the existing gaps in knowledge relative to the cardiovascular safety of NSAID use. We reviewed the results, strengths, and limitations of PRECISION. We believe that the results of the meta-analysis will further assist clinicians in decision-making for management of patients with osteoarthritis. The totality of evidence would support avoidance of NSAID use, if possible, in patients with or at high risk for cardiovascular disease. If used, the shortest-duration and lowest effective NSAID doses should be chosen, given the evidence that risk is duration- and dose-dependent. We also provide a brief discussion of the mechanism of action of NSAIDs, along with discussion of existing guidelines and the recent meta-analysis.

Pitcher, A., et al. (2015). "Design and rationale of a prospective, collaborative meta-analysis of all randomized controlled trials of angiotensin receptor antagonists in Marfan syndrome, based on individual patient data: A report from the Marfan Treatment Trialists' Collaboration." Am Heart J 169(5): 605-612.
	RATIONALE: A number of randomized trials are underway, which will address the effects of angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) on aortic root enlargement and a range of other end points in patients with Marfan syndrome. If individual participant data from these trials were to be combined, a meta-analysis of the resulting data, totaling approximately 2,300 patients, would allow estimation across a number of trials of the treatment effects both of ARB therapy and of beta-blockade. Such an analysis would also allow estimation of treatment effects in particular subgroups of patients on a range of end points of interest and would allow a more powerful estimate of the effects of these treatments on a composite end point of several clinical outcomes than would be available from any individual trial. DESIGN: A prospective, collaborative meta-analysis based on individual patient data from all randomized trials in Marfan syndrome of (i) ARBs versus placebo (or open-label control) and (ii) ARBs versus beta-blockers will be performed. A prospective study design, in which the principal hypotheses, trial eligibility criteria, analyses, and methods are specified in advance of the unblinding of the component trials, will help to limit bias owing to data-dependent emphasis on the results of particular trials. The use of individual patient data will allow for analysis of the effects of ARBs in particular patient subgroups and for time-to-event analysis for clinical outcomes. The meta-analysis protocol summarized in this report was written on behalf of the Marfan Treatment Trialists' Collaboration and finalized in late 2012, without foreknowledge of the results of any component trial, and will be made available online (http://www.ctsu.ox.ac.uk/research/meta-trials).

Plein, C. T., et al. (2016). "A Systematic Review of Eligibility and Outcomes in Tinnitus Trials: Reassessment of Tinnitus Guideline." Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 154(1): 24-32.
	OBJECTIVE: To analyze existing tinnitus treatment trials with regard to eligibility criteria, outcome measures, study quality, and external validity and to recognize the effect of patient demographics, symptom duration, severity, and otologic comorbidity on research findings to help practitioners apply them to patient encounters. DATA SOURCES: Systematic literature search conducted by an information specialist for development of the American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Foundation's tinnitus clinical practice guideline. REVIEW METHODS: Articles were assessed for eligibility with the PRISMA protocol (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-analyses) and data extracted by 2 independent investigators. Studies were assessed for methodological quality, inclusion and exclusion criteria, patient demographics, and outcome measures. RESULTS: A total of 147 randomized trials met inclusion criteria. Nearly all studies took place in a specialist setting. More than 50% did not explicitly define tinnitus, and 44% used a subjective severity threshold, such as "severely disturbing." Fifty-four percent required symptom duration of at least 6 months for study eligibility, and up to 33% excluded patients with "organic" hearing loss or otologic conditions. Mean age was 52.2 years, and median follow-up was 3 months. Only 20% had a low risk of bias. CONCLUSION: Randomized trials of tinnitus interventions are most applicable to older adults with tinnitus lasting >/= 6 months who are evaluated in specialty settings. High risk of bias, short follow-up, and outcome reporting raise concerns about the validity of findings and may influence how clinicians apply trial results to individual patients and establish treatment expectations, thus demonstrating the need for further quality research in this field.

Polanin, J. R. and M. Terzian (2019). "A data-sharing agreement helps to increase researchers' willingness to share primary data: results from a randomized controlled trial." J Clin Epidemiol 106: 60-69.
	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Sharing individual participant data (IPD) among researchers, on request, is an ethical and responsible practice. Despite numerous calls for this practice to be standard, however, research indicates that primary study authors are often unwilling to share IPD, even for use in a meta-analysis. This study sought to examine researchers' reservations about data sharing and to evaluate the impact of sending a data-sharing agreement on researchers' attitudes toward sharing IPD. METHODS: To investigate these questions, we conducted a randomized controlled trial in conjunction with a Web-based survey. We searched for and invited primary study authors of studies included in recent meta-analyses. We emailed more than 1,200 individuals, and 247 participated. The survey asked individuals about their transparent research practices, general concerns about sharing data, attitudes toward sharing data for inclusion in a meta-analysis, and concerns about sharing data in the context of a meta-analysis. We hypothesized that participants who were randomly assigned to receive a data-sharing agreement would be more willing to share their primary study's IPD. RESULTS: Results indicated that participants who received a data-sharing agreement were more willing to share their data set, compared with control participants, even after controlling for demographics and pretest values (d = 0.65, 95% CI [0.39, 0.90]). A member of the control group is 24 percent more likely to share her data set should she receive the data-sharing agreement. CONCLUSIONS: These findings shed light on data-sharing practices, attitudes, and concerns and can be used to inform future meta-analysis projects seeking to collect IPD, as well as the field at large.

Punja, S., et al. (2016). "N-of-1 trials can be aggregated to generate group mean treatment effects: a systematic review and meta-analysis." J Clin Epidemiol 76: 65-75.
	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate how data from n-of-1 trials may be used in systematic reviews and meta-analyses by examining the effects of amphetamine and methylphenidate for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Electronic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, and PsychINFO for English language articles published from 1950 to 2013. N-of-1 trials of pediatric participants with ADHD that assessed either amphetamine or methylphenidate vs. placebo were included. The primary outcome was improvement of core symptoms of ADHD, which was assessed by multiple rating scales. Studies with obtainable individual participant data were included in the meta-analysis. Weighted mean differences were computed using a random-effects model. RESULTS: Nine studies were included in the amphetamine-placebo comparison and 10 in the methylphenidate-placebo comparison. Meta-analyses were consistently in favor of amphetamine in 10 of 11 ADHD symptom domains and methylphenidate in 7 of 12 symptom domains. A high degree of heterogeneity across participant treatment response was observed. CONCLUSIONS: Meta-analysis of n-of-1 trials suggests that amphetamine and methylphenidate are effective treatments for pediatric ADHD. Synthesizing n-of-1 trials enables assessment of individual responses to treatment as well as aggregate summaries across individuals and studies. It offers a promising general approach with applications across diverse treatments and disorders.

Quartagno, M. and J. R. Carpenter (2016). "Multiple imputation for IPD meta-analysis: allowing for heterogeneity and studies with missing covariates." Stat Med 35(17): 2938-2954.
	Recently, multiple imputation has been proposed as a tool for individual patient data meta-analysis with sporadically missing observations, and it has been suggested that within-study imputation is usually preferable. However, such within study imputation cannot handle variables that are completely missing within studies. Further, if some of the contributing studies are relatively small, it may be appropriate to share information across studies when imputing. In this paper, we develop and evaluate a joint modelling approach to multiple imputation of individual patient data in meta-analysis, with an across-study probability distribution for the study specific covariance matrices. This retains the flexibility to allow for between-study heterogeneity when imputing while allowing (i) sharing information on the covariance matrix across studies when this is appropriate, and (ii) imputing variables that are wholly missing from studies. Simulation results show both equivalent performance to the within-study imputation approach where this is valid, and good results in more general, practically relevant, scenarios with studies of very different sizes, non-negligible between-study heterogeneity and wholly missing variables. We illustrate our approach using data from an individual patient data meta-analysis of hypertension trials. (c) 2015 The Authors. Statistics in Medicine Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Rane, M. A., et al. (2019). "Benefits and Risks of Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs: Methodologic Limitations Lead to Clinical Uncertainties." Ther Innov Regul Sci 53(4): 502-505.
	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) include traditional (tNSAIDs), such as ibuprofen, naproxen, and diclofenac, as well as selective cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors (COXIBs), principally celecoxib. COXIBs were developed to decrease gastrointestinal side effects. Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration strengthened its warning about the risks of non-aspirin NSAIDs on myocardial infarction and stroke. The Cyclooxygenase 2 and Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug Trialist collaboration conducted a comprehensive worldwide meta-analysis using individual patient data exploring the risks of various COXIBs and NSAIDs on cardiovascular disease (CVD). Recently, the results of the Prospective Randomized Evaluation of Celecoxib Integrated Safety versus Ibuprofen or Naproxen (PRECISION) trial were published that tested risks of COXIBs and NSAIDs on CVD. Generally, data from meta-analyses of trials not designed a priori to test hypotheses are less reliable than large-scale randomized trials to test small to moderate benefits or harm. When the sample size is large, randomization provides control of confounding not possible to achieve in any observational study. Further, observational studies, and especially claims data, have inherent confounding by indication larger than the effects being sought. Nonetheless, trials must be of sufficient size and duration and achieve high compliance and follow-up to avoid bias and confounding. In this regard, PRECISION has high rates of nonadherence and losses to follow-up that may have introduced bias and confounding. At present, therefore, it may be most prudent for clinicians to remain uncertain about benefits and risks of these drugs and make individual clinical judgments for each of their patients.

Regnier, S. A., et al. (2016). "Review and comparison of methodologies for indirect comparison of clinical trial results: an illustration with ranibizumab and aflibercept." Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res 16(6): 793-801.
	AIM: To review and compare methods for indirect comparison of aflibercept and ranibizumab in patients with diabetic macular edema. METHODS: Post-stratification, inverse probability weighting based on simulated data, weight optimization, and regression model techniques were used to compare pooled individual patient-level data from the RESTORE and RESPOND (ranibizumab 0.5 mg as needed after 3 initial monthly doses) studies with summary-level data from the VIVID and VISTA (aflibercept 2.0 mg every 8 weeks after 5 initial monthly doses, 2q8) studies. The impact of adjusting for up to two baseline characteristics was assessed. RESULTS: All methods provided similar results. After adjustment for baseline best-corrected visual acuity and central retinal thickness, no statistically significant difference in average gain in baseline best-corrected visual acuity from baseline at month 12 was found between ranibizumab 0.5 mg and aflibercept 2q8. CONCLUSIONS: Weight optimization and regression methods are useful options to adjust for more than one baseline characteristic.

Renfro, L. A., et al. (2015). "Survival following early-stage colon cancer: an ACCENT-based comparison of patients versus a matched international general populationdagger." Ann Oncol 26(5): 950-958.
	BACKGROUND: Post-treatment survival experience of early colon cancer (CC) patients is well described in the literature, which states that cure is probable for some patients. However, comparisons of treated patients' survival versus that expected from a matched general population (MGP) are limited. PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 32 745 patients from 25 randomized adjuvant trials conducted from 1977 to 2012 in 41 countries were pooled. Observed long-term survival of these patients was compared with expected survival matched on sex, age, country, and year, both overall and by stage (II and III), sex, treatment [surgery, 5-fluorouracil (5-FU), 5-FU + oxaliplatin], age (<70 and 70+), enrollment year (pre/post 2000), and recurrence (yes/no). Comparisons were made at randomization and repeated conditional on survival to 1, 2, 3, and 5 years. CC and MGP equivalence was tested, and observed Kaplan-Meier survival rates compared with expected MGP rates 3 years out from each landmark. Analyses were also repeated in patients without recurrence. RESULTS: Within most cohorts, long-term survival of CC patients remained statistically worse than the MGP, though conditional survival generally improved over time. Among those surviving 5 years, stage II, oxaliplatin-treated, elderly, and recurrence-free patients achieved subsequent 3-year survival rates within 5% of the MGP, with recurrence-free patients achieving equivalence. CONCLUSIONS: Conditional on survival to 5 years, long-term survival of most CC patients on clinical trials remains modestly poorer than an MGP, but achieves MGP levels in some subgroups. These findings emphasize the need for access to quality care and improved treatment and follow-up strategies.

Renfro, L. A. and D. J. Sargent (2016). "Findings from the Adjuvant Colon Cancer End Points (ACCENT) Collaborative Group: the power of pooled individual patient data from multiple clinical trials." Chin Clin Oncol 5(6): 80.
	The Adjuvant Colon Cancer End Points (ACCENT) Collaborative Group was formed 15 years ago to address scientific questions in early stage colon cancer that could best be answered by pooling individual patient data across many randomized clinical trials. Today, the ACCENT database contains detailed information collected from over 40,000 patients enrolled onto 27 major adjuvant colon cancer trials conducted between 1977 and 2009. Since its inception, the ACCENT group has led many sophisticated analyses addressing a variety of clinical questions, such as the long-term survivorship of colon cancer patients by treatment, the time course of oxaliplatin benefit, and support for the use of disease-free survival (DFS) as a surrogate endpoint for overall survival (OS), among many others. Here, we provide an updated overview of recent important results and future directions of the ACCENT collaboration.

Roberts, D., et al. (2017). "Antenatal corticosteroids for accelerating fetal lung maturation for women at risk of preterm birth." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 3: Cd004454.
	BACKGROUND: Respiratory morbidity including respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is a serious complication of preterm birth and the primary cause of early neonatal mortality and disability. While researching the effects of the steroid dexamethasone on premature parturition in fetal sheep in 1969, Liggins found that there was some inflation of the lungs of lambs born at gestations at which the lungs would be expected to be airless. Liggins and Howie published the first randomised controlled trial in humans in 1972 and many others followed. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of administering a course of corticosteroids to the mother prior to anticipated preterm birth on fetal and neonatal morbidity and mortality, maternal mortality and morbidity, and on the child in later life. SEARCH METHODS: We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register (17 February 2016) and reference lists of retrieved studies. SELECTION CRITERIA: We considered all randomised controlled comparisons of antenatal corticosteroid administration (betamethasone, dexamethasone, or hydrocortisone) with placebo, or with no treatment, given to women with a singleton or multiple pregnancy, prior to anticipated preterm delivery (elective, or following spontaneous labour), regardless of other co-morbidity, for inclusion in this review. Most women in this review received a single course of steroids; however, nine of the included trials allowed for women to have weekly repeats. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted data and checked them for accuracy. The quality of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. MAIN RESULTS: This update includes 30 studies (7774 women and 8158 infants). Most studies are of low or unclear risk for most bias domains. An assessment of high risk usually meant a trial had potential for performance bias due to lack of blinding. Two trials had low risks of bias for all risk of bias domains.Treatment with antenatal corticosteroids (compared with placebo or no treatment) is associated with a reduction in the most serious adverse outcomes related to prematurity, including: perinatal death (average risk ratio (RR) 0.72, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.58 to 0.89; participants = 6729; studies = 15; Tau(2) = 0.05, I(2) = 34%; moderate-quality); neonatal death (RR 0.69, 95% CI 0.59 to 0.81; participants = 7188; studies = 22), RDS (average RR 0.66, 95% CI 0.56 to 0.77; participants = 7764; studies = 28; Tau(2) = 0.06, I(2) = 48%; moderate-quality); moderate/severe RDS (average RR 0.59, 95% CI 0.38 to 0.91; participants = 1686; studies = 6; Tau(2) = 0.14, I(2) = 52%); intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) (average RR 0.55, 95% CI 0.40 to 0.76; participants = 6093; studies = 16; Tau(2) = 0.10, I(2) = 33%; moderate-quality), necrotising enterocolitis (RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.32 to 0.78; participants = 4702; studies = 10); need for mechanical ventilation (RR 0.68, 95% CI 0.56 to 0.84; participants = 1368; studies = 9); and systemic infections in the first 48 hours of life (RR 0.60, 95% CI 0.41 to 0.88; participants = 1753; studies = 8).There was no obvious benefit for: chronic lung disease (average RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.42 to 1.79; participants = 818; studies = 6; Tau(2) = 0.38 I(2) = 65%); mean birthweight (g) (MD -18.47, 95% CI -40.83 to 3.90; participants = 6182; studies = 16; moderate-quality); death in childhood (RR 0.68, 95% CI 0.36 to 1.27; participants = 1010; studies = 4); neurodevelopment delay in childhood (RR 0.64, 95% CI 0.14 to 2.98; participants = 82; studies = 1); or death into adulthood (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.56 to 1.81; participants = 988; studies = 1).Treatment with antenatal corticosteroids does not increase the risk of chorioamnionitis (RR 0.83, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.06; participants = 5546; studies = 15; moderate-quality evidence) or endometritis (RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.87 to 1.63; participants = 4030; studies = 10; Tau(2) = 0.11, I(2) = 28%; moderate-quality). No increased risk in maternal death was observed. However, the data on maternal death is based on data from a single trial with two deaths; four other trials reporting maternal death had zero events (participants = 3392; studies = 5; moderate-quality).There is no definitive evidence to suggest that antenatal corticosteroids work differently in any pre-specified subgroups (singleton versus multiple pregnancy; membrane status; presence of hypertension) or for different study protocols (type of corticosteroid; single course or weekly repeats).GRADE outcomes were downgraded to moderate-quality. Downgrading decisions (for perinatal death, RDS, IVH, and mean birthweight) were due to limitations in study design or concerns regarding precision (chorioamnionitis, endometritis). Maternal death was downgraded for imprecision due to few events. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Evidence from this update supports the continued use of a single course of antenatal corticosteroids to accelerate fetal lung maturation in women at risk of preterm birth. A single course of antenatal corticosteroids could be considered routine for preterm delivery. It is important to note that most of the evidence comes from high income countries and hospital settings; therefore, the results may not be applicable to low-resource settings with high rates of infections.There is little need for further trials of a single course of antenatal corticosteroids versus placebo in singleton pregnancies in higher income countries and hospital settings. However, data are sparse in lower income settings. There are also few data regarding risks and benefits of antenatal corticosteroids in multiple pregnancies and other high-risk obstetric groups. Further information is also required concerning the optimal dose-to-delivery interval, and the optimal corticosteroid to use.We encourage authors of previous studies to provide further information, which may answer any remaining questions about the use of antenatal corticosteroids in such pregnancies without the need for further randomised controlled trials. Individual patient data meta-analysis from published trials is likely to answer some of the evidence gaps. Follow-up studies into childhood and adulthood, particularly in the late preterm gestation and repeat courses groups, are needed. We have not examined the possible harmful effects of antenatal corticosteroids in low-resource settings in this review. It would be particularly relevant to explore this finding in adequately powered prospective trials.

Robin, P., et al. (2018). "Residual pulmonary vascular obstruction and recurrence after acute pulmonary embolism: protocol for a systematic review and meta-analysis of individual participant data." BMJ Open 8(11): e023939.
	BACKGROUND: In patients with a first, unprovoked venous thromboembolism (VTE), the optimal duration of anticoagulant therapy (AT) is controversial due to tightly balanced risks and benefits of indefinite anticoagulation. The objective of this study is to assess among patients with a first acute pulmonary embolism (PE) who received >/=3 months of AT and thereafter had a planar lung scan, whether residual pulmonary vascular obstruction (RPVO) is associated with VTE recurrence after discontinuation of AT. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will conduct a systematic review with a meta-analysis of individual participant data of contemporary studies evaluating the prognostic significance of RPVO in patients with a first acute PE. We will search from inception to 24 January 2018, PubMed, Medline, Embase and Cochrane's Central Registry for Randomized Controlled Trials, CENTRAL for randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies. Two reviewers will conduct all screening and data collection independently. The methodological quality and risk of bias of eligible studies will be carefully and rigorously assessed using the Risk Of Bias In Non-randomised Studies of Interventions tool. The primary objective will be to assess the relationship between RPVO on ventilation-perfusion scan after completion of at least 3 months of AT after an acute PE event, and the risk of an objectively confirmed symptomatic recurrent VTE (including deep vein thrombosis or PE) or death due to PE. The secondary objectives will include the assessment of the optimal RPVO cut-off and the risk of recurrent VTE, as well as the relationship between the relative change in RPVO between PE diagnosis and at discontinuation of AT (>/=3 months) and risk of recurrent VTE. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study of secondary data does not require ethics approval. It will be presented internationally and published in the peer-reviewed literature. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42017081080.

Rogne, T., et al. (2017). "Associations of Maternal Vitamin B12 Concentration in Pregnancy With the Risks of Preterm Birth and Low Birth Weight: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Individual Participant Data." Am J Epidemiol 185(3): 212-223.
	Vitamin B12 (hereafter referred to as B12) deficiency in pregnancy is prevalent and has been associated with both lower birth weight (birth weight <2,500 g) and preterm birth (length of gestation <37 weeks). Nevertheless, current evidence is contradictory. We performed a systematic review and a meta-analysis of individual participant data to evaluate the associations of maternal serum or plasma B12 concentrations in pregnancy with offspring birth weight and length of gestation. Twenty-two eligible studies were identified (11,993 observations). Eighteen studies were included in the meta-analysis (11,216 observations). No linear association was observed between maternal B12 levels in pregnancy and birth weight, but B12 deficiency (<148 pmol/L) was associated with a higher risk of low birth weight in newborns (adjusted risk ratio = 1.15, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.01, 1.31). There was a linear association between maternal levels of B12 and preterm birth (per each 1-standard-deviation increase in B12, adjusted risk ratio = 0.89, 95% CI: 0.82, 0.97). Accordingly, B12 deficiency was associated with a higher risk of preterm birth (adjusted risk ratio = 1.21, 95% CI: 0.99, 1.49). This finding supports the need for randomized controlled trials of vitamin B12 supplementation in pregnancy.

Rotolo, F., et al. (2019). "A Poisson approach to the validation of failure time surrogate endpoints in individual patient data meta-analyses." Stat Methods Med Res 28(1): 170-183.
	Surrogate endpoints are often used in clinical trials instead of well-established hard endpoints for practical convenience. The meta-analytic approach relies on two measures of surrogacy: one at the individual level and one at the trial level. In the survival data setting, a two-step model based on copulas is commonly used. We present a new approach which employs a bivariate survival model with an individual random effect shared between the two endpoints and correlated treatment-by-trial interactions. We fit this model using auxiliary mixed Poisson models. We study via simulations the operating characteristics of this mixed Poisson approach as compared to the two-step copula approach. We illustrate the application of the methods on two individual patient data meta-analyses in gastric cancer, in the advanced setting (4069 patients from 20 randomized trials) and in the adjuvant setting (3288 patients from 14 randomized trials).

Rotolo, F., et al. (2018). "surrosurv: An R package for the evaluation of failure time surrogate endpoints in individual patient data meta-analyses of randomized clinical trials." Comput Methods Programs Biomed 155: 189-198.
	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Surrogate endpoints are attractive for use in clinical trials instead of well-established endpoints because of practical convenience. To validate a surrogate endpoint, two important measures can be estimated in a meta-analytic context when individual patient data are available: the Rindiv(2) or the Kendall's tau at the individual level, and the Rtrial(2) at the trial level. We aimed at providing an R implementation of classical and well-established as well as more recent statistical methods for surrogacy assessment with failure time endpoints. We also intended incorporating utilities for model checking and visualization and data generating methods described in the literature to date. METHODS: In the case of failure time endpoints, the classical approach is based on two steps. First, a Kendall's tau is estimated as measure of individual level surrogacy using a copula model. Then, the Rtrial(2) is computed via a linear regression of the estimated treatment effects; at this second step, the estimation uncertainty can be accounted for via measurement-error model or via weights. In addition to the classical approach, we recently developed an approach based on bivariate auxiliary Poisson models with individual random effects to measure the Kendall's tau and treatment-by-trial interactions to measure the Rtrial(2). The most common data simulation models described in the literature are based on: copula models, mixed proportional hazard models, and mixture of half-normal and exponential random variables. RESULTS: The R package surrosurv implements the classical two-step method with Clayton, Plackett, and Hougaard copulas. It also allows to optionally adjusting the second-step linear regression for measurement-error. The mixed Poisson approach is implemented with different reduced models in addition to the full model. We present the package functions for estimating the surrogacy models, for checking their convergence, for performing leave-one-trial-out cross-validation, and for plotting the results. We illustrate their use in practice on individual patient data from a meta-analysis of 4069 patients with advanced gastric cancer from 20 trials of chemotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: The surrosurv package provides an R implementation of classical and recent statistical methods for surrogacy assessment of failure time endpoints. Flexible simulation functions are available to generate data according to the methods described in the literature.

Rotolo, F., et al. (2017). "Surrogate End Points for Overall Survival in Loco-Regionally Advanced Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma: An Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis." J Natl Cancer Inst 109(4).
	Background: Our objective was to evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) and distant metastasis-free survival (DMFS) as surrogate end points for overall survival (OS) in randomized trials of chemotherapy in loco-regionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinomas (NPCs). Methods: Individual patient data were obtained from 19 trials of the updated Meta-Analysis of Chemotherapy in Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma (MAC-NPC) plus one additional trial (total = 5144 patients). Surrogacy was evaluated at the individual level using a rank correlation coefficient rho and at the trial level using a correlation coefficient R(2) between treatment effects on the surrogate end point and OS. A sensitivity analysis was performed with two-year PFS/DMFS and five-year OS. Results: PFS was strongly correlated with OS at the individual level (rho = 0.93, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.93 to 0.94) and at the trial level (R(2) = 0.95, 95% CI = 0.47 to 1.00). For DMFS, too, the individual-level correlation with OS was strong (rho = 0.98, 95% CI = 0.98 to 0.98); at trial level, the correlation was high but the regression adjusted for measurement error could not be computed (unadjusted R(2) = 0.96, 95% CI = 0.94 to 0.99). In the sensitivity analysis, two-year PFS was highly correlated with five-year OS at the individual level (rho = 0.89, 95% CI = 0.88 to 0.90) and at the trial level (R(2) = 0.85, 95% CI = 0.46 to 1.00); two-year DMFS was highly correlated with five-year OS at the individual level (rho = 0.95, 95% CI = 0.94 to 0.95) and at the trial level (R(2) = 0.78, 95% CI = 0.33 to 1.00). Conclusions: PFS and DMFS are valid surrogate end points for OS to assess treatment effect of chemotherapy in loco-regionally advanced NPC, while PFS can be measured earlier.

Ryden, L., et al. (2016). "Aromatase inhibitors alone or sequentially combined with tamoxifen in postmenopausal early breast cancer compared with tamoxifen or placebo - Meta-analyses on efficacy and adverse events based on randomized clinical trials." Breast 26: 106-114.
	Tamoxifen (TAM) and aromatase inhibitors (AI) are adjuvant therapy options for postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor positive (ER+) breast cancer. This systematic review of seven randomized controlled studies comparing TAM and AI, and one study comparing extended therapy with an AI with placebo after about 5 years of tamoxifen, aims to assess long-term clinical efficacy and adverse events. The literature review was performed according to the principles of the Cochrane Collaboration. The search included common databases up to 2013-01-14. Studies of high or moderate quality were used for grading of evidence. Revman software was utilized for meta-analyses of published data. Disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) were improved with AI monotherapy compared to TAM with high and moderate quality of evidence respectively. Sequenced therapy with AI --> TAM (or vice versa) improved DFS compared with TAM with moderate quality of evidence, but did not improve OS (low quality of evidence). However, if only studies on sequenced AI therapy with randomization before endocrine therapy were considered, no improvement of DFS could be found. Fractures are more frequently associated with AI whereas the risk of endometrial cancer and venous thromboembolism are higher with TAM. For cardiovascular events no difference was found between AI (mono- or sequenced therapy) and TAM, whereas sequenced therapy compared with AI had lower risk of cardiovascular events (moderate level of evidence). AIs are superior to TAM as adjuvant hormonal therapy for postmenopausal ER-positive breast cancer. TAM can be considered for individual patients due to the different toxicity profile compared with AI. Cardiovascular events related to AI treatment deserve further attention.

Saccone, G., et al. (2017). "Cervical Pessary for Preventing Preterm Birth in Singleton Pregnancies With Short Cervical Length: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis." J Ultrasound Med 36(8): 1535-1543.
	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness of cervical pessary for preventing spontaneous preterm birth (SPTB) in singleton gestations with a second trimester short cervix. METHODS: Electronic databases were searched from their inception until February 2016. We included randomized clinical trials (RCTs) comparing the use of the cervical pessary with expectant management in singletons pregnancies with transvaginal ultrasound cervical length (TVU CL) </=25 mm. The primary outcome was incidence of SPTB <34 weeks. The summary measures were reported as relative risk (RR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). RESULTS: Three RCTs (n = 1,420) were included. The mean gestational age (GA) at randomization was approximately 22 weeks. The Arabin pessary was used as intervention in all three trials, and was removed by vaginal examination at approximately 37 weeks. Cervical pessary was not associated with prevention of SPTB <37 (20.2% vs 50.2%; RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.23 to 1.09), <34, <32, and <28 weeks, compared to no pessary. No differences were found in the mean of GA at, interval from randomization to delivery, incidence of preterm premature rupture of membranes and of cesarean delivery, and in neonatal outcomes. The Arabin pessary was associated with a significantly higher risk of vaginal discharge. CONCLUSIONS: In singleton pregnancies with a TVU CL </=25mm at 20(0) -24(6) weeks, the Arabin pessary does not reduce the rate of spontaneous preterm delivery or improve perinatal outcome. Individual patient data meta-analysis may clarify whether cervical pessary may be beneficial in subgroups, such as only singleton gestations without prior SPTB or by different CL cutoffs.

Saito, M., et al. (2017). "Systematic literature review and meta-analysis of the efficacy of artemisinin-based and quinine-based treatments for uncomplicated falciparum malaria in pregnancy: methodological challenges." Malar J 16(1): 488.
	BACKGROUND: There is no agreed standard method to assess the efficacy of anti-malarials for uncomplicated falciparum in pregnancy despite an increased risk of adverse outcomes for the mother and the fetus. The aim of this review is to present the currently available evidence from both observational and interventional cohort studies on anti-malarial efficacy in pregnancy and summarize the variability of assessment and reporting found in the review process. METHODS: Efficacy methodology and assessment of artemisinin-based treatments (ABT) and quinine-based treatments (QBT) were reviewed systematically using seven databases and two clinical trial registries (protocol registration-PROSPERO: CRD42017054808). Pregnant women in all trimesters with parasitologically confirmed uncomplicated falciparum malaria were included irrespective of symptoms. This review attempted to re-calculate proportions of treatment success applying the same definition as the standard WHO methodology for non-pregnant populations. Aggregated data meta-analyses using data from randomized control trials (RCTs) comparing different treatments were performed by random effects model. RESULTS: A total of 48 eligible efficacy studies were identified including 7279 treated Plasmodium falciparum episodes. While polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used in 24 studies for differentiating recurrence, the assessment and reporting of treatment efficacy was heterogeneous. When the same definition could be applied, PCR-corrected treatment failure of >/= 10% at any time points was observed in 3/30 ABT and 3/7 QBT arms. Ten RCTs compared different combinations of ABT but there was a maximum of two published RCTs with PCR-corrected outcomes for each comparison. Five RCTs compared ABT and QBT. Overall, the risk of treatment failure was significantly lower in ABT than in QBT (risk ratio 0.22, 95% confidence interval 0.07-0.63), although the actual drug combinations and outcome endpoints were different. First trimester women were included in 12 studies none of which were RCTs of ABT. CONCLUSIONS: Efficacy studies in pregnancy are not only limited in number but use varied methodological assessments. In five RCTs with comparable methodology, ABT resulted in higher efficacy than QBT in the second and third trimester of pregnancy. Individual patient data meta-analysis can include data from observational cohort studies and could overcome some of the limitations of the current assessment given the paucity of data in this vulnerable group.

Saiz, L. C., et al. (2018). "Blood pressure targets for the treatment of people with hypertension and cardiovascular disease." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 7: Cd010315.
	BACKGROUND: This is the first update of the review published in 2017. Hypertension is a prominent preventable cause of premature morbidity and mortality. People with hypertension and established cardiovascular disease are at particularly high risk, so reducing blood pressure to below standard targets may be beneficial. This strategy could reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity but could also increase adverse events. The optimal blood pressure target in people with hypertension and established cardiovascular disease remains unknown. OBJECTIVES: To determine if 'lower' blood pressure targets (</= 135/85 mmHg) are associated with reduction in mortality and morbidity as compared with 'standard' blood pressure targets (</= 140 to 160/90 to 100 mmHg) in the treatment of people with hypertension and a history of cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, angina, stroke, peripheral vascular occlusive disease). SEARCH METHODS: For this updated review, the Cochrane Hypertension Information Specialist searched the following databases for randomized controlled trials up to February 2018: Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), and Latin American Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) (from 1982), along with the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov. We also contacted authors of relevant papers regarding further published and unpublished work. We applied no language restrictions. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that included more than 50 participants per group and provided at least six months' follow-up. Trial reports had to present data for at least one primary outcome (total mortality, serious adverse events, total cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality). Eligible interventions involved lower targets for systolic/diastolic blood pressure (</= 135/85 mmHg) compared with standard targets for blood pressure (</= 140 to 160/90 to 100 mmHg).Participants were adults with documented hypertension and adults receiving treatment for hypertension with a cardiovascular history for myocardial infarction, stroke, chronic peripheral vascular occlusive disease, or angina pectoris. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed search results and extracted data using standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. MAIN RESULTS: We included six RCTs that involved a total of 9484 participants. Mean follow-up was 3.7 years (range 1.0 to 4.7 years). All RCTs provided individual participant data.We found no change in total mortality (risk ratio (RR) 1.06, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.91 to 1.23) or cardiovascular mortality (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.29; moderate-quality evidence). Similarly, we found no differences in serious adverse events (RR 1.01, 95% CI 0.94 to 1.08; low-quality evidence) or total cardiovascular events (including myocardial infarction, stroke, sudden death, hospitalization, or death from congestive heart failure) (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.80 to 1.00; low-quality evidence). Studies reported more participant withdrawals due to adverse effects in the lower target arm (RR 8.16, 95% CI 2.06 to 32.28; very low-quality evidence). Blood pressures were lower in the lower target group by 8.9/4.5 mmHg. More drugs were needed in the lower target group, but blood pressure targets were achieved more frequently in the standard target group. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence of a difference in total mortality, serious adverse events, or total cardiovascular events between people with hypertension and cardiovascular disease treated to a lower or to a standard blood pressure target. This suggests that no net health benefit is derived from a lower systolic blood pressure target. We found very limited evidence on adverse events, which led to high uncertainty. At present, evidence is insufficient to justify lower blood pressure targets (</= 135/85 mmHg) in people with hypertension and established cardiovascular disease. More trials are needed to examine this topic.

Saiz, L. C., et al. (2017). "Blood pressure targets for the treatment of people with hypertension and cardiovascular disease." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 10: Cd010315.
	BACKGROUND: Hypertension is a prominent preventable cause of premature morbidity and mortality. People with hypertension and established cardiovascular disease are at particularly high risk, so reducing blood pressure below standard targets may be beneficial. This strategy could reduce cardiovascular mortality and morbidity but could also increase adverse events. The optimal blood pressure target in people with hypertension and established cardiovascular disease remains unknown. OBJECTIVES: To determine if 'lower' blood pressure targets (</= 135/85 mmHg) are associated with reduction in mortality and morbidity as compared with 'standard' blood pressure targets (</= 140 to 160/ 90 to 100 mmHg) in the treatment of people with hypertension and a history of cardiovascular disease (myocardial infarction, angina, stroke, peripheral vascular occlusive disease). SEARCH METHODS: The Cochrane Hypertension Information Specialist searched the following databases for randomized controlled trials up to February 2017: the Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and ClinicalTrials.gov. We also searched the Latin American and Caribbean Health Science Literature Database (from 1982) and contacted authors of relevant papers regarding further published and unpublished work. There were no language restrictions. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with more than 50 participants per group and at least six months follow-up. Trial reports needed to present data for at least one primary outcome (total mortality, serious adverse events, total cardiovascular events, cardiovascular mortality). Eligible interventions were lower target for systolic/diastolic blood pressure (</= 135/85 mmHg) compared with standard target for blood pressure (</= 140 to 160/90 to 100 mmHg).Participants were adults with documented hypertension or who were receiving treatment for hypertension and cardiovascular history for myocardial infarction, stroke, chronic peripheral vascular occlusive disease or angina pectoris. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed search results and extracted data using standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration. MAIN RESULTS: We included six RCTs that involved a total of 9795 participants. Mean follow-up was 3.7 years (range 1.0 to 4.7 years). Five RCTs provided individual patient data for 6775 participants.We found no change in total mortality (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.22) or cardiovascular mortality (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.21; moderate-quality evidence). Similarly, no differences were found in serious adverse events (RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.11; low-quality evidence). There was a reduction in fatal and non fatal cardiovascular events (including myocardial infarction, stroke, sudden death, hospitalization or death from congestive heart failure) with the lower target (RR 0.87, 95% CI 0.78 to 0.98; ARR 1.6% over 3.7 years; low-quality evidence). There were more participant withdrawals due to adverse effects in the lower target arm (RR 8.16, 95% CI 2.06 to 32.28; very low-quality evidence). Blood pressures were lower in the lower' target group by 9.5/4.9 mmHg. More drugs were needed in the lower target group but blood pressure targets were achieved more frequently in the standard target group. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: No evidence of a difference in total mortality and serious adverse events was found between treating to a lower or to a standard blood pressure target in people with hypertension and cardiovascular disease. This suggests no net health benefit from a lower systolic blood pressure target despite the small absolute reduction in total cardiovascular serious adverse events. There was very limited evidence on adverse events, which lead to high uncertainty. At present there is insufficient evidence to justify lower blood pressure targets (</= 135/85 mmHg) in people with hypertension and established cardiovascular disease. More trials are needed to answer this question.

Samuelsen, B. T., et al. (2017). "Hamstring Autograft versus Patellar Tendon Autograft for ACL Reconstruction: Is There a Difference in Graft Failure Rate? A Meta-analysis of 47,613 Patients." Clin Orthop Relat Res 475(10): 2459-2468.
	BACKGROUND: Bone-patellar tendon-bone (bone-tendon-bone) and four-strand hamstring tendon grafts (hamstring) are the most commonly utilized autografts for primary anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. Existing clinical trials, registry studies, and meta-analyses offer conflicting opinions regarding the most favorable graft choice. QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: Which graft type for ACL reconstruction (bone-tendon-bone or hamstring) has a higher risk of (1) graft rupture and/or (2) graft laxity? METHODS: We performed a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs), prospective cohort studies, and high-quality national registry studies to compare the outcomes of primary ACL reconstruction with bone-tendon-bone autograft or hamstring autograft. Studies that compared these graft types were identified through a comprehensive search of electronic databases (PubMed, MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library). Two independent reviewers utilized the Jadad scale for RCT study quality and the Modified Coleman Methodology Score for prospective comparative and registry study quality. The included studies were analyzed for the primary outcome measure of graft rupture with or without revision ACL surgery. In surviving grafts, secondary outcomes of graft laxity were quantified by KT1000/2000 testing, a positive pivot shift test, and a positive Lachman test. Meta-analysis was performed with Review Manager. A total of 47,613 ACL reconstructions (39,768 bone-tendon-bone and 7845 hamstring) from 14 RCTs, 10 prospective comparative studies, and one high-quality national registry study were included in this meta-analysis. Mean age was 28 years in both groups. Sixty-three percent of patients in the bone-tendon-bone cohort were men versus 57% of patients in the hamstring cohort. Mean followup was 68 +/- 55 months. RESULTS: Two hundred twelve of 7560 (2.80%) bone-tendon-bone grafts ruptured compared with 1123 of 39,510 (2.84%) in the hamstring group (odds ratio = 0.83, 95% confidence interval, 0.72-0.96; p = 0.01). The number needed to treat analysis found that 235 patients would need to be treated with a bone-tendon-bone graft over a hamstring tendon graft to prevent one graft rupture. Instrumented laxity analysis showed that 22% (318 of 1433) of patients in the bone-tendon-bone group had laxity compared with 18% (869 of 4783) in the hamstring tendon group (odds ratio = 0.86; p = 0.16). Pivot shift analysis showed a positive pivot shift in 19% (291 of 1508) of the bone-tendon-bone group compared with 17% (844 of 5062) in the hamstring group (odds ratio = 0.89; p = 0.51). Lachman testing showed a positive Lachman in 25% (71 of 280) of patients receiving bone-tendon-bone grafts compared with 25% (73 of 288) in the hamstring group (odds ratio = 0.96; p = 0.84). CONCLUSIONS: In this meta-analysis of short- to mid-term followup after primary ACL reconstruction, hamstring autografts failed at a higher rate than bone-tendon-bone autografts. However, failure rates were low in each group, the difference observed was small, and we observed few differences between graft types in terms of laxity. Both graft types remain viable options for primary ACL reconstruction, and the difference in failure rate should be one part of a larger conversation with each individual patient about graft selection that should also include potential differences in donor site morbidity, complication rates, and patient-reported outcome measures. Continued prospective collection of patient data will be important going forward as we attempt to further characterize the potential differences in outcomes attributable to graft selection. LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, therapeutic study.

Sandset, E. C., et al. (2018). "Protocol for a prospective collaborative systematic review and meta-analysis of individual patient data from randomized controlled trials of vasoactive drugs in acute stroke: The Blood pressure in Acute Stroke Collaboration, stage-3." Int J Stroke 13(7): 759-765.
	Rationale Despite several large clinical trials assessing blood pressure lowering in acute stroke, equipoise remains particularly for ischemic stroke. The "Blood pressure in Acute Stroke Collaboration" commenced in the mid-1990s focussing on systematic reviews and meta-analysis of blood pressure lowering in acute stroke. From the start, Blood pressure in Acute Stroke Collaboration planned to assess safety and efficacy of blood pressure lowering in acute stroke using individual patient data. Aims To determine the optimal management of blood pressure in patients with acute stroke, including both intracerebral hemorrhage and ischemic stroke. Secondary aims are to assess which clinical and therapeutic factors may alter the optimal management of high blood pressure in patients with acute stroke and to assess the effect of vasoactive treatments on hemodynamic variables. Methods and design Individual patient data from randomized controlled trials of blood pressure management in participants with ischemic stroke and/or intracerebral hemorrhage enrolled during the ultra-acute (pre-hospital), hyper-acute (<6 h), acute (<48 h), and sub-acute (<168 h) phases of stroke. Study outcomes The primary effect variable will be functional outcome defined by the ordinal distribution of the modified Rankin Scale; analyses will also be carried out in pre-specified subgroups to assess the modifying effects of stroke-related and pre-stroke patient characteristics. Key secondary variables will include clinical, hemodynamic and neuroradiological variables; safety variables will comprise death and serious adverse events. Discussion Study questions will be addressed in stages, according to the protocol, before integrating these into a final overreaching analysis. We invite eligible trials to join the collaboration.

Savina, M., et al. (2018). "Surrogate endpoints in advanced sarcoma trials: a meta-analysis." Oncotarget 9(77): 34617-34627.
	Background: Alternative endpoints to overall survival (OS) are frequently used to assess treatment efficacy in randomized controlled trials (RCT). Their properties in terms of surrogate outcomes for OS need to be assessed. We evaluated the surrogate properties of progression-free survival (PFS), time-to-progression (TTP) and time-to-treatment failure (TTF) in advanced soft tissue sarcomas (STS). Results: A total of 21 trials originally met the selection criteria and 14 RCTs (N = 2846) were included in the analysis. Individual-level associations were moderate (highest for 12-month PFS: Spearman's rho = 0.66; 95% CI [0.63; 0.68]). Trial-level associations were ranked as low for the three endpoints as per the IQWiG criterion. Materials and Methods: We performed a meta-analysis using individual-patient data (IPD). Phase II/III RCTs evaluating therapies for adults with advanced STS were eligible. We estimated the individual- and the trial-level associations between then candidate surrogates and OS. Statistical methods included weighted linear regression and the two-stage model introduced by Buyse and Burzykowski. The strength of the trial-level association was ranked according to the German Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) guidelines. Conclusions: Our results do not support strong surrogate properties of PFS, TTP and TTF for OS in advanced STS.

Schafer, A. G. M., et al. (2018). "The Efficacy of Electronic Health-Supported Home Exercise Interventions for Patients With Osteoarthritis of the Knee: Systematic Review." J Med Internet Res 20(4): e152.
	BACKGROUND: Osteoarthritis of the knee is the most common cause for disability and limited mobility in the elderly, with considerable individual suffering and high direct and indirect disease-related costs. Nonsurgical interventions such as exercise, enhanced physical activity, and self-management have shown beneficial effects for pain reduction, physical function, and quality of life (QoL), but access to these treatments may be limited. Therefore, home therapy is strongly recommended. However, adherence to these programs is low. Patients report lack of motivation, feedback, and personal interaction as the main barriers to home therapy adherence. To overcome these barriers, electronic health (eHealth) is seen as a promising opportunity. Although beneficial effects have been shown in the literature for other chronic diseases such as chronic pain, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes, a systematic literature review on the efficacy of eHealth interventions for patients with osteoarthritis of knee is missing so far. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of eHealth-supported home exercise interventions with no or other interventions regarding pain, physical function, and health-related QoL in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee. METHODS: MEDLINE, CENTRAL, CINAHL, and PEDro were systematically searched using the keywords osteoarthritis knee, eHealth, and exercise. An inverse variance random-effects meta-analysis was carried out pooling standardized mean differences (SMDs) of individual studies. The Cochrane tool was used to assess risk of bias in individual studies, and the quality of evidence across studies was evaluated following the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development, and Evaluation approach. RESULTS: The literature search yielded a total of 648 results. After screening of titles, abstracts, and full-texts, seven randomized controlled trials were included. Pooling the data of individual studies demonstrated beneficial short-term (pain SMD=-0.31, 95% CI -0.58 to -0.04, low quality; QoL SMD=0.24, 95% CI 0.05-0.43, moderate quality) and long-term effects (pain -0.30, 95% CI -0.07 to -0.53, moderate quality; physical function 0.41, 95% CI 0.17-0.64, high quality; and QoL SMD=0.27, 95% CI 0.06-0.47, high quality). CONCLUSIONS: eHealth-supported exercise interventions resulted in less pain, improved physical function, and health-related QoL compared with no or other interventions; however, these improvements were small (SMD<0.5) and may not make a meaningful difference for individual patients. Low adherence is seen as one limiting factor of eHealth interventions. Future research should focus on participatory development of eHealth technology integrating evidence-based principles of exercise science and ways of increasing patient motivation and adherence.

Schiffl, H. (2019). "Online hemodiafiltration and mortality risk in end-stage renal disease patients: A critical appraisal of current evidence." Kidney Res Clin Pract 38(2): 159-168.
	The life expectancy of end-stage renal disease patients undergoing regular hemodialysis (HD) remains significantly lower than in the general population. Reducing excess mortality by improving renal replacement options is an unmet medical need. Online post-dilution hemodiafiltration (HDF) has been promoted as the gold standard, offering improved clinical outcomes, based on numerous observational studies that suggest a reduced mortality risk and lower morbidity with HDF compared with standard HD. However, most randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have failed to demonstrate a significant beneficial effect of HDF on all-cause mortality. The effects on secondary outcomes were often negligible or absent. Unfortunately, these RCTs were characterized by a moderate to high risk of bias. In post-hoc analyses of the largest RCTs and meta-analysis of individual participant data from four RCTs, HDF patients receiving the highest convection volume consistently and dose-dependently saw superior outcomes. However, as these studies were not designed a priori to clarify this issue, and there are no indisputable mechanisms underlying reduced mortality risks, we cannot exclude the possibility that the health status of patients (with vascular access as a proxy) may affect outcomes more than the convective technique itself. There is currently insufficient evidence to support the contention that high-volume HDF confers relevant benefits to patients over standard HD. The conflicting data of published RCTs reduce confidence in the superiority of high-volume convective therapy. Hopefully, ongoing large RCTs (for example, CONVINCE) may supply an indisputable answer to the crucial question of high-volume HDF.

Schmidli, H., et al. (2019). "Beyond randomized clinical trials: Use of external controls." Clin Pharmacol Ther.
	Randomized controlled trials are the gold standard to investigate efficacy and safety of new treatments. In certain settings, however, randomizing patients to control may be difficult for ethical or feasibility reasons. Borrowing strength using relevant individual patient data on control from external trials or real world data sources may then allow us to reduce, or even eliminate, the concurrent control group. Naive direct use of external control data is not valid due to differences in patient characteristics and other confounding factors. Instead, we suggest the rigorous application of meta-analytic and propensity score methods to use external controls in a principled way. We illustrate these methods with two case studies: (i) a single-arm trial in a rare cancer disease, using propensity score matching to construct an external control from real world data; (ii) a randomized trial in children with multiple sclerosis, borrowing strength from past trials using a Bayesian meta-analytic approach.

Schuit, E., et al. (2019). "How often can meta-analyses of individual-level data individualize treatment? A meta-epidemiologic study." Int J Epidemiol 48(2): 596-608.
	BACKGROUND: One of the claimed main advantages of individual participant data meta-analysis (IPDMA) is that it allows assessment of subgroup effects based on individual-level participant characteristics, and eventually stratified medicine. In this study, we evaluated the conduct and results of subgroup analyses in IPDMA. METHODS: We searched PubMed, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library from inception to 31 December 2014. We included papers if they described an IPDMA based on randomized clinical trials that investigated a therapeutic intervention on human subjects and in which the meta-analysis was preceded by a systematic literature search. We extracted data items related to subgroup analysis and subgroup differences (subgroup-treatment interaction p < 0.05). RESULTS: Overall, 327 IPDMAs were eligible. A statistically significant subgroup-treatment interaction for the primary outcome was reported in 102 (36.6%) of 279 IPDMAs that reported at least one subgroup analysis. This corresponded to 187 different statistically significant subgroup-treatment interactions: 124 for an individual-level subgrouping variable (in 76 IPDMAs) and 63 for a group-level subgrouping variable (in 36 IPDMAs). Of the 187, only 7 (3.7%; 6 individual and 1 group-level subgrouping variables) had a large difference between strata (standardized effect difference d >/= 0.8). Among the 124 individual-level statistically significant subgroup differences, the IPDMA authors claimed that 42 (in 21 IPDMAs) should lead to treating the subgroups differently. None of these 42 had d >/= 0.8. CONCLUSIONS: Availability of individual-level data provides statistically significant interactions for relative treatment effects in about a third of IPDMAs. A modest number of these interactions may offer opportunities for stratified medicine decisions.

Schuld, J. and M. Glanemann (2015). "Acute Cholecystitis." Viszeralmedizin 31(3): 163-165.
	BACKGROUND: The treatment of acute cholecystitis has been controversially discussed in the literature as there are no high-evidence-level data yet for determining the optimal point in time for surgical intervention. So far, the laparoscopic removal of the gallbladder within 72 h has been the most preferred approach in acute cholecystitis. METHODS: We conducted a systematic review by including randomized trials of early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis. RESULTS: Based on a few prospective studies and two meta-analyses, there was consent to prefer an early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for patients suffering from acute calculous cholecystitis while the term 'early' has not been consistently defined yet. So far, there is new level 1b evidence brought forth by the so-called 'ACDC' study which has convincingly shown in a prospective randomized setting that immediate laparoscopic cholecystectomy - within a time frame of 24 h after hospital admission - is the smartest approach in ASA I-III patients suffering from acute calculous cholecystitis compared to a more conservative approach with a delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy after an initial antibiotic treatment in terms of morbidity, length of hospital stay, and overall treatment costs. Concerning critically ill patients suffering from acute calculous or acalculous cholecystitis, there is no consensus in treatment due to missing data in the literature. CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis within 24 h after hospital admission is a safe procedure and should be the preferred treatment for ASA I-III patients. In critically ill patients, the intervention should be determined by a narrow interdisciplinary consent based on the patient's individual comorbidities.

Schultz, M. J., et al. (2015). "Mechanical ventilation strategies for the surgical patient." Curr Opin Crit Care 21(4): 351-357.
	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To summarize clinical evidence for intraoperative ventilation settings, which could protect against postoperative pulmonary complications (PPCs) in surgical patients with uninjured lungs. RECENT FINDINGS: There is convincing evidence for protection against PPCs by low tidal volumes: benefit was found in several randomized controlled trials, and was recently confirmed in meta-analyses. Evidence for protection against PPCs by high levels of positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) is less definite. Although benefit was found in several randomized controlled trials, most of them compared a bundle of low tidal volume and high level of PEEP with conventional ventilation; one recent large randomized controlled trial that compared high with low levels of PEEP showed that ventilation with high level of PEEP did not protect against PPCs but caused intraoperative complications instead. A recent individual patient data meta-analysis of trials comparing bundles of low tidal volume and high levels of PEEP to conventional intraoperative ventilation suggested that protection against PPCs comes from tidal volume reductions, and not from increasing levels of PEEP. SUMMARY: The understanding on the protective roles of tidal volume and PEEP settings against PPCs has rapidly expanded. During intraoperative ventilation, low tidal volumes are protective, the protective role of high levels of PEEP is uncertain.

Seifert, G., et al. (2019). "Faster recovery and reduced paracetamol use - a meta-analysis of EPs 7630 in children with acute respiratory tract infections." BMC Pediatr 19(1): 119.
	OBJECTIVE: Fever is a very common adaptive immune response in acute respiratory tract disorders during infancy. Antipyretic / analgesic drugs such as paracetamol (acetaminophen) are widely used to improve the comfort of the child but may cause medically unneeded antipyresis and rare but potentially serious side effects. We assess whether treatment with Pelargonium sidoides extract EPs 7630 reduces the administration of paracetamol in children with acute tonsillopharyngitis (ATP) or acute bronchitis (AB). DESIGN: Meta-analysis of randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials. METHODS: We searched clinical trial registries (ISRCTN, ClinicalTrials.gov ) and medical literature (MEDLINE, EMBASE), for randomised, placebo-controlled trials investigating the administration of EPs 7630 to children with ATP or AB and reporting the co-administration of paracetamol. Based on the individual participant data of the eligible trials, study populations were characterized according to sex and age, and meta-analyses were performed for cumulative paracetamol use and ability to attend school at treatment end. RESULTS: Six trials including a total of 523 children aged 6-10 years (EPs 7630: 265; placebo: 258) and suffering from non-beta-hemolytic streptococcal ATP (3 trials) or from AB (3 trials) were identified and eligible. Children received EPs 7630 or placebo for 6 (ATP) or 7 days (AB). Compared to placebo, EPs 7630 reduced the cumulative dose of paracetamol in 5 out of the 6 trials, by an average of 244 mg (Hedges' g; - 0.28; 95% confidence interval: [- 0.53; - 0.02]; p < 0.03). At treatment end, 30.2% (EPs 7630) and 74.4% (placebo) of the children were still unable to attend school (risk ratio: 0.43; 95% confidence interval: [0.29; 0.65]; p < 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: In children aged 6-10 years with AB or ATP, EPs 7630 alleviated the symptom burden and accelerated recovery. Although EPs 7630 has no known antipyretic effect, concomitant use of paracetamol was reduced.

Sethi, N., et al. (2019). "Fever control interventions versus placebo, sham or no intervention in adults: a protocol for a systematic review with meta-analysis and Trial Sequential Analysis." BMJ Open 9(11): e032389.
	INTRODUCTION: Fever is an integral part of the inflammatory response and has therefore likely a physiological role in fighting infections. Nevertheless, whether fever in itself is beneficial or harmful in adults is unknown. This protocol for a systematic review aims at identifying the beneficial and harmful effects of fever control interventions in adults. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This protocol for a systematic review was conducted following the recommendations of Cochrane, GRADE and the eight-step assessment suggested by Jakobsen and colleagues for better validation of meta-analytical results in systematic reviews. We plan to include all relevant randomised clinical trials comparing any fever control intervention with placebo, sham or no intervention in adults. We plan to search CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, BIOSIS, CINAHL, Scopus and Web of Science Core Collection to identify relevant trials. Any eligible trial will be assessed and classified as either at high risk of bias or low risk of bias, and our primary conclusions will be based on trials at low risk of bias. We will perform our meta-analyses of the extracted data using Review Manager 5.3 and Trial Sequential Analysis. For all our outcomes, we will create a 'Summary of Findings' table based on GRADE assessments of the certainty of the evidence. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: No formal approval or review of ethics is required for this systematic review as individual patient data will not be included. This systematic review has the potential to highlight (1) whether one should believe fever to be beneficial, harmful or neither in adults; (2) the existing knowledge gaps on this topic; and (3) whether the recommendations from guidelines and daily clinical practice are correct. These results will be disseminated through publication in a leading peer-reviewed journal. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42019134006.

Sharma, T., et al. (2016). "Suicidality and aggression during antidepressant treatment: systematic review and meta-analyses based on clinical study reports." Bmj 352: i65.
	OBJECTIVE: To study serious harms associated with selective serotonin and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors.Design Systematic review and meta-analysis. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality and suicidality. Secondary outcomes were aggressive behaviour and akathisia. DATA SOURCES: Clinical study reports for duloxetine, fluoxetine, paroxetine, sertraline, and venlafaxine obtained from the European and UK drug regulators, and summary trial reports for duloxetine and fluoxetine from Eli Lilly's website. ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR STUDY SELECTION: Double blind placebo controlled trials that contained any patient narratives or individual patient listings of harms. DATA EXTRACTION AND ANALYSIS: Two researchers extracted data independently; the outcomes were meta-analysed by Peto's exact method (fixed effect model). RESULTS: We included 70 trials (64,381 pages of clinical study reports) with 18,526 patients. These trials had limitations in the study design and discrepancies in reporting, which may have led to serious under-reporting of harms. For example, some outcomes appeared only in individual patient listings in appendices, which we had for only 32 trials, and we did not have case report forms for any of the trials. Differences in mortality (all deaths were in adults, odds ratio 1.28, 95% confidence interval 0.40 to 4.06), suicidality (1.21, 0.84 to 1.74), and akathisia (2.04, 0.93 to 4.48) were not significant, whereas patients taking antidepressants displayed more aggressive behaviour (1.93, 1.26 to 2.95). For adults, the odds ratios were 0.81 (0.51 to 1.28) for suicidality, 1.09 (0.55 to 2.14) for aggression, and 2.00 (0.79 to 5.04) for akathisia. The corresponding values for children and adolescents were 2.39 (1.31 to 4.33), 2.79 (1.62 to 4.81), and 2.15 (0.48 to 9.65). In the summary trial reports on Eli Lilly's website, almost all deaths were noted, but all suicidal ideation events were missing, and the information on the remaining outcomes was incomplete. CONCLUSIONS: Because of the shortcomings identified and having only partial access to appendices with no access to case report forms, the harms could not be estimated accurately. In adults there was no significant increase in all four outcomes, but in children and adolescents the risk of suicidality and aggression doubled. To elucidate the harms reliably, access to anonymised individual patient data is needed.

Sherifali, D., et al. (2016). "Evaluating the Effect of a Diabetes Health Coach in Individuals with Type 2 Diabetes." Can J Diabetes 40(1): 84-94.
	OBJECTIVES: Diabetes health coaching has not been adequately assessed in individuals with type 2 diabetes. The objective of this review was to synthesize the evidence of health coaching for individuals with diabetes to determine the effects of coaching on diabetes control, specifically on glycated hemoglobin (A1C) levels. METHODS: The EMBASE, MEDLINE, CINAHL, PsychINFO and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials databases were searched from inception to January 2015. Reference lists from important publications were also reviewed. At least 2 evaluators independently screened and extracted data from eligible studies. RESULTS: A total of 8 trials met the selection criteria, which included 724 adult participants; 353 participants were randomized to a diabetes health coaching intervention, and 371 were randomized to usual care. The pooled effect of diabetes health coaching overall was a statistically significant reduction of A1C levels by 0.32 (95% CI, -0.50 to -0.15). Longer diabetes health coaching exposure (>6 months) resulted in a 0.57% reduction in A1C levels (95% CI, -0.76 to -0.38), compared to shorter diabetes health coaching exposure (</=6 months) (-0.23%; 95% CI, -0.37 to -0.09). Across all studies, diabetes health coaching consisted of goal setting, knowledge acquisition, individualized care and frequent follow up. CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes health coaching has an emerging role in healthcare that facilitates self-care, behaviour change and offers frequent follow up and support. This review finds that health coaching for those with diabetes is an effective intervention for improving glycemic control, which may be of greater benefit when offered in addition to existing diabetes care.

Shroff, R., et al. (2017). "Clinical practice recommendations for native vitamin D therapy in children with chronic kidney disease Stages 2-5 and on dialysis." Nephrol Dial Transplant 32(7): 1098-1113.
	Vitamin D deficiency is widely prevalent and often severe in children and adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD). Although native vitamin D {25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D]} is thought to have pleiotropic effects on many organ systems, its skeletal effects have been most widely studied. The 25(OH)D deficiency is causally linked with rickets and fractures in healthy children and those with CKD, contributing to the CKD-mineral and bone disorder (MBD) complex. There are few studies to provide evidence for vitamin D therapy or guidelines for its use in CKD. A core working group (WG) of the European Society for Paediatric Nephrology (ESPN) CKD-MBD and Dialysis WGs have developed recommendations for the evaluation, treatment and prevention of vitamin D deficiency in children with CKD. We present clinical practice recommendations for the use of ergocalciferol (vitamin D2) and cholecalciferol (vitamin D3) in children with CKD Stages 2-5 and on dialysis. A parallel document addresses treatment recommendations for active vitamin D analogue therapy. The WG has performed an extensive literature review to include meta-analyses and randomized controlled trials in healthy children as well as children and adults with CKD, and prospective observational studies in children with CKD. The Grading of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system has been used to develop and grade the recommendations. In the absence of applicable study data, the opinion of experts from the ESPN CKD-MBD and Dialysis WGs is provided, but clearly GRADE-ed as such and must be carefully considered by the treating physician, and adapted to individual patient needs as appropriate.

Simillis, C., et al. (2019). "Open Versus Laparoscopic Versus Robotic Versus Transanal Mesorectal Excision for Rectal Cancer: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-analysis." Ann Surg 270(1): 59-68.
	OBJECTIVE: To compare techniques for rectal cancer resection. SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: Different surgical approaches exist for mesorectal excision. METHODS: Systematic literature review and Bayesian network meta-analysis performed. RESULTS: Twenty-nine randomized controlled trials included, reporting on 6237 participants, comparing: open versus laparoscopic versus robotic versus transanal mesorectal excision. No significant differences identified between treatments in intraoperative morbidity, conversion rate, grade III/IV morbidity, reoperation, anastomotic leak, nodes retrieved, involved distal margin, 5-year overall survival, and locoregional recurrence. Operative blood loss was less with laparoscopic surgery compared with open, and with robotic surgery compared with open and laparoscopic. Robotic operative time was longer compared with open, laparoscopic, and transanal. Laparoscopic operative time was longer compared with open. Laparoscopic surgery resulted in lower overall postoperative morbidity and fewer wound infections compared with open. Robotic surgery had fewer wound infections compared with open. Time to defecation was longer with open surgery compared with laparoscopic and robotic. Hospital stay was longer after open surgery compared with laparoscopic and robotic, and after laparoscopic surgery compared with robotic. Laparoscopic surgery resulted in more incomplete or nearly complete mesorectal excisions compared with open, and in more involved circumferential resection margins compared with transanal. Robotic surgery resulted in longer distal resection margins compared with open, laparoscopic, and transanal. CONCLUSIONS: The different techniques result in comparable perioperative morbidity and long-term survival. The laparoscopic and robotic approaches may improve postoperative recovery, and the open and transanal approaches may improve oncological resection. Technique selection should be based on expected benefits by individual patient.

Smedslund, G., et al. (2016). NIPH Systematic Reviews: Executive Summaries. Effect of Thrombolytic Treatment 3 to 4.5 Hours After Onset of Stroke. Oslo, Norway, Knowledge Centre for the Health Services at The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH)
Copyright (c) 2016 by The Norwegian Institute of Public Health (NIPH).
	The Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services (now part of the Norwegian Institute of Public Health) was commissioned to update the evidence on the effect of intravenous thrombolytic treatment administered 3 to 4.5 hours after stroke. There was already a Cochrane systematic review by Wardlaw et al. from 2014. We searched for systematic reviews published after Wardlaw's review, but found none that fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Then we searched for randomised controlled trials published later than the search date for the Cochrane review, but we found no relevant trials. We have, therefore, conveyed the findings from Wardlaw and supplemented with data from an individual patient data meta-analysis. We have also graded our confidence in the estimates of effect using the GRADE tool (Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation). The outcomes are assessed 3-6 months after the stroke and are compared with placebo. We found that intravenous thrombolysis administered 3 to 4.5 hours after onset of ischemic stroke gives:Uncertain effect on the outcome "alive and independent" (very low quality/confidence). A positive effect on the outcome "alive with no functional impairment" (moderate quality/confidence). Between 37 fewer and 36 more per 1000 in risk of death (low quality/confidence). Uncertain risk of symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage (very low quality/confidence).

Sobel, M., et al. (2017). "Causal Inference for Meta-Analysis and Multi-Level Data Structures, with Application to Randomized Studies of Vioxx." Psychometrika 82(2): 459-474.
	We construct a framework for meta-analysis and other multi-level data structures that codifies the sources of heterogeneity between studies or settings in treatment effects and examines their implications for analyses. The key idea is to consider, for each of the treatments under investigation, the subject's potential outcome in each study or setting were he to receive that treatment. We consider four sources of heterogeneity: (1) response inconsistency, whereby a subject's response to a given treatment would vary across different studies or settings, (2) the grouping of nonequivalent treatments, where two or more treatments are grouped and treated as a single treatment under the incorrect assumption that a subject's responses to the different treatments would be identical, (3) nonignorable treatment assignment, and (4) response-related variability in the composition of subjects in different studies or settings. We then examine how these sources affect heterogeneity/homogeneity of conditional and unconditional treatment effects. To illustrate the utility of our approach, we re-analyze individual participant data from 29 randomized placebo-controlled studies on the cardiovascular risk of Vioxx, a Cox-2 selective nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug approved by the FDA in 1999 for the management of pain and withdrawn from the market in 2004.

Sofeu, C. L., et al. (2019). "One-step validation method for surrogate endpoints using data from multiple randomized cancer clinical trials with failure-time endpoints." Stat Med 38(16): 2928-2942.
	A surrogate endpoint can be used instead of the most relevant clinical endpoint to assess the efficiency of a new treatment. Before being used, a surrogate endpoint must be validated based on appropriate methods. Numerous validation approaches have been proposed with the most popular used in a context of meta-analysis, based on a two-step analysis strategy. For two failure-time endpoints, two association measurements are usually used, Kendall's tau at the individual level and the adjusted coefficient of determination ( R t r i a l , a d j 2 ) at the trial level. However, R t r i a l , a d j 2 is not always available due to model estimation constraints. We propose a one-step validation approach based on a joint frailty model, including both individual-level and trial-level random effects. Parameters have been estimated using a semiparametric penalized marginal log-likelihood method, and various numerical integration approaches were considered. Both individual- and trial-level surrogacy were evaluated using a new definition of Kendall's tau and the coefficient of determination. Estimators' performances were evaluated using simulation studies and satisfactory results were found. The model was applied to individual patient data meta-analyses in gastric cancer to assess disease-free survival as a surrogate for overall survival, as part of the evaluation of adjuvant therapy.

Spertus, J., et al. (2019). "Bayesian Meta-analysis of Multiple Continuous Treatments with Individual Participant-Level Data: An Application to Antipsychotic Drugs." Med Decis Making 39(5): 583-592.
	Modeling dose-response relationships of drugs is essential to understanding their safety effects on patients under realistic circumstances. While intention-to-treat analyses of clinical trials provide the effect of assignment to a particular drug and dose, they do not capture observed exposure after factoring in nonadherence and dropout. We develop a Bayesian method to flexibly model the dose-response relationships of binary outcomes with continuous treatment, permitting multiple evidence sources, treatment effect heterogeneity, and nonlinear dose-response curves. In an application, we examine the risk of excessive weight gain for patients with schizophrenia treated with the second-generation antipsychotics paliperidone, risperidone, or olanzapine in 14 clinical trials. We define exposure as total cumulative dose (daily dose x duration) and convert to units equivalent to 100 mg of olanzapine (OLZ doses). Averaging over the sample population of 5891 subjects, the median dose ranged from 0 (placebo randomized participants) to 6.4 OLZ doses (paliperidone randomized participants). We found paliperidone to be least likely to cause excessive weight gain across a range of doses. Compared with 0 OLZ doses, at 5.0 OLZ doses, olanzapine subjects had a 15.6% (95% credible interval: 6.7, 27.1) excess risk of weight gain; corresponding estimates for paliperidone and risperidone were 3.2% (1.5, 5.2) and 14.9% (0.0, 38.7), respectively. Moreover, compared with nonblack participants, black participants had a 6.8% (1.0, 12.4) greater risk of excessive weight gain at 10.0 OLZ doses of paliperidone. Nevertheless, our findings suggest that paliperidone is safer in terms of weight gain risk than risperidone or olanzapine for all participants at low to moderate cumulative OLZ doses.

Stenson, B. J. (2016). "Oxygen Saturation Targets for Extremely Preterm Infants after the NeOProM Trials." Neonatology 109(4): 352-358.
	Five randomized controlled trials comparing lower (85-89%) versus higher (91-95%) pulse oximeter saturation (SpO2) targets for extremely preterm infants have now been reported from the United States of America, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand. These trials included more than 4,800 infants, and they provide robust evidence to permit comparison of these target ranges and consider the next steps for clinicians and researchers. The lower SpO2 range was associated with a significant increase in the risk of death. There was no significant difference between the two target ranges in the rate of disability at 18-24 months, including blindness. A significant difference between groups in the risk of the composite primary outcome of death or disability in favour of the higher SpO2 range was mainly attributable to the difference between groups in the risk of death. The lower target range did not reduce bronchopulmonary dysplasia or severe visual impairment, but it did increase the risk of necrotizing enterocolitis requiring surgery or causing death. The trials provide no reason to prefer SpO2 targets below 90% and indicate the importance of more trials to see if a further survival advantage can be identified. The safety of targets above 95% has not been evaluated. The five trials were designed to be similar to facilitate an individual patient data meta-analysis, and this Neonatal Oxygen Prospective Meta-Analysis (NeOProM) may provide further insights.

Sternberg, C. N., et al. (2015). "Immediate versus deferred chemotherapy after radical cystectomy in patients with pT3-pT4 or N+ M0 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder (EORTC 30994): an intergroup, open-label, randomised phase 3 trial." Lancet Oncol 16(1): 76-86.
	BACKGROUND: Patients with muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder have poor survival after cystectomy. The EORTC 30994 trial aimed to compare immediate versus deferred cisplatin-based combination chemotherapy after radical cystectomy in patients with pT3-pT4 or N+ M0 urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. METHODS: This intergroup, open-label, randomised, phase 3 trial recruited patients from hospitals across Europe and Canada. Eligible patients had histologically proven urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, pT3-pT4 disease or node positive (pN1-3) M0 disease after radical cystectomy and bilateral lymphadenectomy, with no evidence of any microscopic residual disease. Within 90 days of cystectomy, patients were centrally randomly assigned (1:1) by minimisation to either immediate adjuvant chemotherapy (four cycles of gemcitabine plus cisplatin, high-dose methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin [high-dose MVAC], or MVAC) or six cycles of deferred chemotherapy at relapse, with stratification for institution, pT category, and lymph node status according to the number of nodes dissected. Neither patients nor investigators were masked. Overall survival was the primary endpoint; all analyses were by intention to treat. The trial was closed after recruitment of 284 of the planned 660 patients. This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00028756. FINDINGS: From April 29, 2002, to Aug 14, 2008, 284 patients were randomly assigned (141 to immediate treatment and 143 to deferred treatment), and followed up until the data cutoff of Aug 21, 2013. After a median follow-up of 7.0 years (IQR 5.2-8.7), 66 (47%) of 141 patients in the immediate treatment group had died compared with 82 (57%) of 143 in the deferred treatment group. No significant improvement in overall survival was noted with immediate treatment when compared with deferred treatment (adjusted HR 0.78, 95% CI 0.56-1.08; p=0.13). Immediate treatment significantly prolonged progression-free survival compared with deferred treatment (HR 0.54, 95% CI 0.4-0.73, p<0.0001), with 5-year progression-free survival of 47.6% (95% CI 38.8-55.9) in the immediate treatment group and 31.8% (24.2-39.6) in the deferred treatment group. Grade 3-4 myelosuppression was reported in 33 (26%) of 128 patients who received treatment in the immediate chemotherapy group versus 24 (35%) of 68 patients who received treatment in the deferred chemotherapy group, neutropenia occurred in 49 (38%) versus 36 (53%) patients, respectively, and thrombocytopenia in 36 (28%) versus 26 (38%). Two patients died due to toxicity, one in each group. INTERPRETATION: Our data did not show a significant improvement in overall survival with immediate versus deferred chemotherapy after radical cystectomy and bilateral lymphadenectomy for patients with muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma. However, the trial is limited in power, and it is possible that some subgroups of patients might still benefit from immediate chemotherapy. An updated individual patient data meta-analysis and biomarker research are needed to further elucidate the potential for survival benefit in subgroups of patients. FUNDING: Lilly, Canadian Cancer Society Research.

Stewart, L. A., et al. (2015). "Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analyses of individual participant data: the PRISMA-IPD Statement." Jama 313(16): 1657-1665.
	IMPORTANCE: Systematic reviews and meta-analyses of individual participant data (IPD) aim to collect, check, and reanalyze individual-level data from all studies addressing a particular research question and are therefore considered a gold standard approach to evidence synthesis. They are likely to be used with increasing frequency as current initiatives to share clinical trial data gain momentum and may be particularly important in reviewing controversial therapeutic areas. OBJECTIVE: To develop PRISMA-IPD as a stand-alone extension to the PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) Statement, tailored to the specific requirements of reporting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of IPD. Although developed primarily for reviews of randomized trials, many items will apply in other contexts, including reviews of diagnosis and prognosis. DESIGN: Development of PRISMA-IPD followed the EQUATOR Network framework guidance and used the existing standard PRISMA Statement as a starting point to draft additional relevant material. A web-based survey informed discussion at an international workshop that included researchers, clinicians, methodologists experienced in conducting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of IPD, and journal editors. The statement was drafted and iterative refinements were made by the project, advisory, and development groups. The PRISMA-IPD Development Group reached agreement on the PRISMA-IPD checklist and flow diagram by consensus. FINDINGS: Compared with standard PRISMA, the PRISMA-IPD checklist includes 3 new items that address (1) methods of checking the integrity of the IPD (such as pattern of randomization, data consistency, baseline imbalance, and missing data), (2) reporting any important issues that emerge, and (3) exploring variation (such as whether certain types of individual benefit more from the intervention than others). A further additional item was created by reorganization of standard PRISMA items relating to interpreting results. Wording was modified in 23 items to reflect the IPD approach. CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: PRISMA-IPD provides guidelines for reporting systematic reviews and meta-analyses of IPD.

Stewart, L. A., et al. (2017). "Evaluating progestogens for prevention of preterm birth international collaborative (EPPPIC) individual participant data (IPD) meta-analysis: protocol." Syst Rev 6(1): 235.
	BACKGROUND: Preterm birth is the most common cause of death and harm to newborn babies. Babies that are born early may have difficulties at birth and experience health problems during early childhood. Despite extensive study, there is still uncertainty about the effectiveness of progestogen (medications that are similar to the natural hormone progesterone) in preventing or delaying preterm birth, and in improving birth outcomes. The Evaluating Progestogen for Prevention of Preterm birth International Collaborative (EPPPIC) project aims to reduce uncertainty about the specific conditions in which progestogen may (or may not) be effective in preventing or delaying preterm birth and improving birth outcomes. METHODS: The design of the study involves international collaborative individual participant data meta-analysis comprising systematic review, re-analysis, and synthesis of trial datasets. Inclusion criteria are as follows: randomized controlled trials comparing progestogen versus placebo or non-intervention, or comparing different types of progestogen, in asymptomatic women at risk of preterm birth. Main outcomes are as follows; fetal/infant death, preterm birth or fetal death (<=37 weeks, <=34 weeks, <= 28 weeks), serious neonatal complications or fetal/infant death, neurosensory disability (measured at 18 months or later) or infant/child death, important maternal morbidity, or maternal death. In statistical methods, IPD will be synthesized across trials using meta-analysis. Both 'two-stage' models (where effect estimates are calculated for each trial and subsequently pooled in a meta-analysis) and 'one-stage' models (where all IPD from all trials are analyzed in one step, while accounting for the clustering of participants within trials) will be used. If sufficient suitable data are available, a network meta-analysis will compare all types of progesterone and routes of administration extending the one-stage models to include multiple treatment arms. DISCUSSION: EPPPIC is an international collaborative project being conducted by the forming EPPPIC group, which includes trial investigators, an international secretariat, and the research project team. Results, which are intended to contribute to improvements in maternal and child health, are expected to be publicly available in mid 2018. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42017068299.

Storebo, O. J., et al. (2015). "Methylphenidate for children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)." Cochrane Database Syst Rev(11): Cd009885.
	BACKGROUND: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is one of the most commonly diagnosed and treated psychiatric disorders in childhood. Typically, children with ADHD find it difficult to pay attention, they are hyperactive and impulsive.Methylphenidate is the drug most often prescribed to treat children and adolescents with ADHD but, despite its widespread use, this is the first comprehensive systematic review of its benefits and harms. OBJECTIVES: To assess the beneficial and harmful effects of methylphenidate for children and adolescents with ADHD. SEARCH METHODS: In February 2015 we searched six databases (CENTRAL, Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO, Conference Proceedings Citations Index), and two trials registers. We checked for additional trials in the reference lists of relevant reviews and included trials. We contacted the pharmaceutical companies that manufacture methylphenidate to request published and unpublished data. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing methylphenidate versus placebo or no intervention in children and adolescents aged 18 years and younger with a diagnosis of ADHD. At least 75% of participants needed to have an intellectual quotient of at least 70 (i.e. normal intellectual functioning). Outcomes assessed included ADHD symptoms, serious adverse events, non-serious adverse events, general behaviour and quality of life. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Seventeen review authors participated in data extraction and risk of bias assessment, and two review authors independently performed all tasks. We used standard methodological procedures expected within Cochrane. Data from parallel-group trials and first period data from cross-over trials formed the basis of our primary analyses; separate analyses were undertaken using post-cross-over data from cross-over trials. We used Trial Sequential Analyses to control for type I (5%) and type II (20%) errors, and we assessed and downgraded evidence according to the Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach for high risk of bias, imprecision, indirectness, heterogeneity and publication bias. MAIN RESULTS: The studies.We included 38 parallel-group trials (5111 participants randomised) and 147 cross-over trials (7134 participants randomised). Participants included individuals of both sexes, at a boys-to-girls ratio of 5:1, and participants' ages ranged from 3 to 18 years across most studies (in two studies ages ranged from 3 to 21 years). The average age across all studies was 9.7 years. Most participants were from high-income countries.The duration of methylphenidate treatment ranged from 1 to 425 days, with an average duration of 75 days. Methylphenidate was compared to placebo (175 trials) or no intervention (10 trials). Risk of Bias.All 185 trials were assessed to be at high risk of bias. Primary outcomes. Methylphenidate may improve teacher-rated ADHD symptoms (standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.77, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.90 to -0.64; 19 trials, 1698 participants; very low-quality evidence). This corresponds to a mean difference (MD) of -9.6 points (95% CI -13.75 to -6.38) on the ADHD Rating Scale (ADHD-RS; range 0 to 72 points; DuPaul 1991a). A change of 6.6 points on the ADHD-RS is considered clinically to represent the minimal relevant difference. There was no evidence that methylphenidate was associated with an increase in serious (e.g. life threatening) adverse events (risk ratio (RR) 0.98, 95% CI 0.44 to 2.22; 9 trials, 1532 participants; very low-quality evidence). The Trial Sequential Analysis-adjusted intervention effect was RR 0.91 (CI 0.02 to 33.2). SECONDARY OUTCOMES: Among those prescribed methylphenidate, 526 per 1000 (range 448 to 615) experienced non-serious adverse events, compared with 408 per 1000 in the control group. This equates to a 29% increase in the overall risk of any non-serious adverse events (RR 1.29, 95% CI 1.10 to 1.51; 21 trials, 3132 participants; very low-quality evidence). The Trial Sequential Analysis-adjusted intervention effect was RR 1.29 (CI 1.06 to 1.56). The most common non-serious adverse events were sleep problems and decreased appetite. Children in the methylphenidate group were at 60% greater risk for trouble sleeping/sleep problems (RR 1.60, 95% CI 1.15 to 2.23; 13 trials, 2416 participants), and 266% greater risk for decreased appetite (RR 3.66, 95% CI 2.56 to 5.23; 16 trials, 2962 participants) than children in the control group.Teacher-rated general behaviour seemed to improve with methylphenidate (SMD -0.87, 95% CI -1.04 to -0.71; 5 trials, 668 participants; very low-quality evidence).A change of seven points on the Child Health Questionnaire (CHQ; range 0 to 100 points; Landgraf 1998) has been deemed a minimal clinically relevant difference. The change reported in a meta-analysis of three trials corresponds to a MD of 8.0 points (95% CI 5.49 to 10.46) on the CHQ, which suggests that methylphenidate may improve parent-reported quality of life (SMD 0.61, 95% CI 0.42 to 0.80; 3 trials, 514 participants; very low-quality evidence). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The results of meta-analyses suggest that methylphenidate may improve teacher-reported ADHD symptoms, teacher-reported general behaviour, and parent-reported quality of life among children and adolescents diagnosed with ADHD. However, the low quality of the underpinning evidence means that we cannot be certain of the magnitude of the effects. Within the short follow-up periods typical of the included trials, there is some evidence that methylphenidate is associated with increased risk of non-serious adverse events, such as sleep problems and decreased appetite, but no evidence that it increases risk of serious adverse events.Better designed trials are needed to assess the benefits of methylphenidate. Given the frequency of non-serious adverse events associated with methylphenidate, the particular difficulties for blinding of participants and outcome assessors point to the advantage of large, 'nocebo tablet' controlled trials. These use a placebo-like substance that causes adverse events in the control arm that are comparable to those associated with methylphenidate. However, for ethical reasons, such trials should first be conducted with adults, who can give their informed consent.Future trials should publish depersonalised individual participant data and report all outcomes, including adverse events. This will enable researchers conducting systematic reviews to assess differences between intervention effects according to age, sex, comorbidity, type of ADHD and dose. Finally, the findings highlight the urgent need for large RCTs of non-pharmacological treatments.

Suciu, S., et al. (2018). "Relapse-Free Survival as a Surrogate for Overall Survival in the Evaluation of Stage II-III Melanoma Adjuvant Therapy." J Natl Cancer Inst 110(1).
	Background: We assessed whether relapse-free survival (RFS; time until recurrence/death) is a valid surrogate for overall survival (OS) among resected stage II-III melanoma patients through a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials. Methods: Individual patient data (IPD) on RFS and OS were collected from 5826 patients enrolled in 11 randomized adjuvant trials comparing interferon (IFN) to observation. In addition, IPD from two studies comparing IFN and vaccination in 989 patients were included. A two-level modeling approach was used for assessing Spearman's patient-level correlation (rho) of RFS and OS and the trial-level coefficient of determination (R(2)) of the treatment effects on RFS and on OS. The results were validated externally in 13 adjuvant studies without available IPD. We then tested the results on the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) 18071 double-blind trial comparing ipilimumab 10 mg/kg with placebo, which showed a statistically significant impact of the checkpoint inhibitor on RFS and OS. All statistical tests were two-sided. Results: With a median follow-up of seven years, 12 of 13 trials showed a consistency between the IFN vs No IFN differences regarding RFS (hazard ratio [HR]RFS = 0.88) and OS (HROS = 0.91), but the small trial, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 2696, was an outlier (HRRFS = 0.72 vs HROS = 1.11). Therefore, even if rho was high, R(2) was low and could not reliably be estimated. Based on the 12 trials, rho remained high (0.89), and the hazard ratios for RFS and OS were strongly correlated (R(2) = 0.91). The surrogate threshold effect for RFS was estimated to be 0.77. For the EORTC 18071 trial, the hazard ratio for RFS was 0.75, predicting an effect of ipilimumab on OS. This was subsequently confirmed (HROS = 0.72, 95.1% confidence interval = 0.58 to 0.88, P = .001). Conclusions: In high-risk stage II-III melanoma, RFS appeared to be a valid surrogate end point for OS for adjuvant randomized studies assessing interferon or a checkpoint inhibitor. In future similar adjuvant studies, a hazard ratio for RFS of 0.77 or less would predict a treatment impact on OS.

Sudfeld, C. R. and E. R. Smith (2019). "New Evidence Should Inform WHO Guidelines on Multiple Micronutrient Supplementation in Pregnancy." J Nutr 149(3): 359-361.
	Recent data from an individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis of 17 randomized control trials including >100,000 women living in low- and middle-income countries found that multiple micronutrient supplementation (MMS) in pregnancy reduced the risk of low birth weight, preterm birth, and being born small for gestational age. Further, MMS reduced the risk of neonatal and infant mortality for females, and there was no evidence of increased risk among the 26 subgroups examined. The 2016 WHO antenatal care guidelines, which were released before the IPD meta-analysis, did not universally recommend MMS, noting: "There is some evidence of additional benefit ... but there is also some evidence of risk." The guidelines suggest that MMS may increase the risk of neonatal mortality based on an exploratory subgroup analysis of 6 randomized trials. However, we identified several issues with this subgroup analysis. In this report we correct and update the subgroup analysis and show that there is no evidence that MMS increases the risk of neonatal mortality. There is growing scientific consensus that MMS containing iron and folic acid (IFA) is superior to IFA alone. The WHO guidelines currently state that "policy-makers in populations with a high prevalence of nutritional deficiencies might consider the benefits of MMN [multiple micronutrient] supplements on maternal health to outweigh the disadvantages, and may choose to give MMN supplements that include iron and folic acid." This equivocal guidance has created confusion about the best course of action for public health programs in low- and middle-income countries. Given the new evidence, WHO should review their statements regarding the potential neonatal mortality risks and re-evaluate the overall potential benefits of implementing MMS as a public health program.

Sun, X. Y., et al. (2017). "Percutaneous versus traditional and paraspinal posterior open approaches for treatment of thoracolumbar fractures without neurologic deficit: a meta-analysis." Eur Spine J 26(5): 1418-1431.
	PURPOSE: This study evaluated differences in outcome variables between percutaneous, traditional, and paraspinal posterior open approaches for traumatic thoracolumbar fractures without neurologic deficit. METHODS: A systematic review of PubMed, Cochrane, and Embase was performed. In this meta-analysis, we conducted online searches of PubMed, Cochrane, Embase using the search terms "thoracolumbar fractures", "lumbar fractures", ''percutaneous'', "minimally invasive", ''open", "traditional", "posterior", "conventional", "pedicle screw", "sextant", and "clinical trial". The analysis was performed on individual patient data from all the studies that met the selection criteria. Clinical outcomes were expressed as risk difference for dichotomous outcomes and mean difference for continuous outcomes with 95 % confidence interval. Heterogeneity was assessed using the chi (2) test and I (2) statistics. RESULTS: There were 4 randomized controlled trials and 14 observational articles included in this analysis. Percutaneous approach was associated with better ODI score, less Cobb angle correction, less Cobb angle correction loss, less postoperative VBA correction, and lower infection rate compared with open approach. Percutaneous approach was also associated with shorter operative duration, longer intraoperative fluoroscopy, less postoperative VAS, and postoperative VBH% in comparison with traditional open approach. No significant difference was found in Cobb angle correction, postoperative VBA, VBA correction loss, Postoperative VBH%, VBH correction loss, and pedicle screw misplacement between percutaneous approach and open approach. There was no significant difference in operative duration, intraoperative fluoroscopy, postoperative VAS, and postoperative VBH% between percutaneous approach and paraspianl approach. CONCLUSIONS: The functional and the radiological outcome of percutaneous approach would be better than open approach in the long term. Although trans-muscular spatium approach belonged to open fixation methods, it was strictly defined as less invasive approach, which provided less injury to the paraspinal muscles and better reposition effect.

Svedbom, A., et al. (2015). "Is dibotermin alfa a cost-effective substitute for autologous iliac crest bone graft in single level lumbar interbody spine fusion?" Curr Med Res Opin 31(11): 2145-2156.
	OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of dibotermin alfa compared with autologous iliac crest bone graft (ICBG) for patients undergoing single level lumbar interbody spinal fusion in a UK hospital setting. METHODS: An individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis of six randomized controlled clinical trials and two single arm trials compared dibotermin alfa on an absorbable collagen implantation matrix (ACIM) (n = 456) and ICBG (n = 244) on resource use, re-operation rates, and SF-6D (Short form 6-dimension) health utility (total N = 700). Failure-related second surgery, operating time, post-operative hospital stay, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) derived from the IPD meta-analysis were included as inputs in an economic evaluation undertaken to assess the cost-effectiveness of dibotermin alfa/ACIM versus ICBG for patients undergoing single level lumbar interbody spinal fusion. A four year time horizon and the United Kingdom (UK) National Health Service (NHS) and Personal Social Services (PSS) perspective was adopted in the base case, with sensitivity analyses performed to gauge parameter uncertainty. RESULTS: In the base case analysis, patients treated using dibotermin alfa/ACIM (12 mg pack) accrued 0.055 incremental QALYs at an incremental cost of pound 737, compared with patients treated with ICBG. This resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of pound 13,523, indicating that at a willingness-to-pay threshold of pound 20,000, dibotermin alfa/ACIM is a cost-effective intervention relative to ICBG from the NHS and PSS perspective. CONCLUSIONS: In a UK hospital setting, dibotermin alfa/ACIM is a cost-effective substitute for ICBG for patients who require lumbar interbody arthrodesis.

Sylvester, R. (2015). "Reply to Stephen B. Williams, Donald L. Lamm, Ashish M. Kamat's Letter to the Editor re: Richard J. Sylvester, Willem Oosterlinck, Sten Holmang, et al. Systematic Review and Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis of Randomized Trials Comparing a Single Immediate Instillation of Chemotherapy After Transurethral Resection with Transurethral Resection Alone in Patients with Stage pTa-pT1 Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder: Which Patients Benefit from the Instillation? Eur Urol. In press. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2015.05.050." Eur Urol 68(6): e128.
	
Sylvester, R. (2016). "Reply to Per-Uno Malmstrom and Bruce J. Trock's Letter to the Editor re: Richard J. Sylvester, Willem Oosterlinck, Sten Holmang, et al. Systematic Review and Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis of Randomized Trials Comparing a Single Immediate Instillation of Chemotherapy After Transurethral Resection with Transurethral Resection Alone in Patients with Stage pTa-pT1 Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder: Which Patients Benefit from the Instillation? Eur Urol. In press. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2015.05.050." Eur Urol 69(1): e12-13.
	
Taboada, M., et al. (2016). "Ceftaroline fosamil versus ceftriaxone for the treatment of community-acquired pneumonia: individual patient data meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials." J Antimicrob Chemother 71(6): 1748-1749.
	
Takeuchi, H., et al. (2017). "Immediate vs Gradual Discontinuation in Antipsychotic Switching: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis." Schizophr Bull 43(4): 862-871.
	Background: Antipsychotic switching is routine in clinical practice, although it remains unclear which is the preferable switching method: immediate discontinuation of the current antipsychotic or a gradual tapering approach. The first strategy has been implicated in rebound/withdrawal symptoms and emergence/exacerbation of symptoms, whereas the gradual approach is thought to pose a risk of additive or synergistic side effects if employed in the context of a crossover approach. Methods: MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were systematically searched. Randomized controlled trials examining immediate vs gradual antipsychotic discontinuation in antipsychotic switching in patients with schizophrenia and/or schizoaffective disorder were selected. Data on clinical outcomes, including study discontinuation, psychopathology, extrapyramidal symptoms, and treatment-emergent adverse events, were extracted. Results: A total of 9 studies involving 1416 patients that met eligibility criteria were included in the meta-analysis. No significant differences in any clinical outcomes were found between the 2 approaches (all Ps > .05). Sensitivity analyses revealed that the findings remained unchanged in the studies where switching to aripiprazole was performed or where immediate initiation of the next antipsychotic was adopted, while some significant differences were observed in switching to olanzapine or ziprasidone. Conclusions: These findings indicate that either immediate or gradual discontinuation of the current antipsychotic medication represents a viable treatment option. Clinicians are advised to choose an antipsychotic switching strategy according to individual patient needs. This said, immediate discontinuation may be advantageous both for simplicity and because a stalled cross-titration process in antipsychotic switching could end up in antipsychotic polypharmacy.

Tang, H. Y., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of etoricoxib for ankylosing spondylitis: A protocol for systematic review of randomized controlled trial." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(15): e15155.
	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials have reported that etoricoxib has been utilized to treat ankylosing spondylitis (AS) effectively. However, no study systematically investigated the efficacy and safety of etoricoxib for patients with AS. In this systematic review, we will assess the efficacy and safety of etoricoxib for AS. METHODS: The following electronic databases will be searched from inception to the February 1, 2019: Cochrane Library, Embase, PubMed, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, and Chinese Scientific Journal Database. This study will include randomized controlled trials that explore the efficacy and safety of etoricoxib for AS. The primary outcome is pain intensity, as measured by any pain scales, such as Numerical Rating Scale. The secondary outcomes consist of AS function, as measured by Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index, or other tools; quality of life, as assessed by Ankylosing Spondylitis Quality of Life questionnaire or any other relevant instruments; as well as adverse events. Two authors will independently carry out the study selection, data extraction, and risk of bias assessment. Statistical analysis will be performed by using RevMan 5.3 software. RESULTS: This systematic review will provide a detailed summary of present evidence related to the efficacy and safety of etoricoxib for patients with AS. CONCLUSION: The results of this study may provide management guidance for AS treated by etoricoxib. DISSEMINATION AND ETHICS: This systematic review dose not needs ethical approval, because it will not analyze individual patient data. The findings of this study are expected to publish through a peer-reviewed journal. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: CRD42019124768.

Tawfik, A., et al. (2016). "Systematic review and network meta-analysis of stroke prevention treatments in patients with atrial fibrillation." Clin Pharmacol 8: 93-107.
	BACKGROUND: In the last 4 years, four novel oral anticoagulants have been developed as alternatives to warfarin and antiplatelet agents for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation (AF) patients. The objective of this review was to estimate the comparative effectiveness of all antithrombotic treatments for AF patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data sources were Medline Ovid (1946 to October 2015), Embase Ovid (1980 to October 2015), and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, Issue 9, 2015). Randomized controlled trials of AF patients were selected if they compared at least two of the following: placebo, aspirin, aspirin and clopidogrel combination therapy, adjusted-dose warfarin (target international normalized ratio 2.0-3.0), dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban. Bayesian network meta-analyses were conducted for outcomes of interest (all stroke, ischemic stroke, myocardial infarction, overall mortality, major bleeding, and intracranial hemorrhage). RESULTS: Based on 16 randomized controlled trials of 96,826 patients, all oral anticoagulants were more effective than antiplatelet agents at reducing the risk of ischemic stroke and all strokes. Compared to warfarin, dabigatran 150 mg (rate ratio 0.65, 95% credible interval 0.52-0.82) and apixaban (rate ratio 0.82, 95% credible interval 0.69-0.97) reduced the risk of all strokes. Dabigatran 150 mg was also more effective than warfarin at reducing ischemic stroke risk (rate ratio 0.76, 95% credible interval 0.59-0.99). Aspirin, apixaban, dabigatran 110 mg, and edoxaban were associated with less major bleeding than warfarin. CONCLUSION: All oral anticoagulants reduce the risk of stroke in AF patients. Some novel oral anticoagulants are associated with a lower stroke and/or major bleeding risk than warfarin. In addition to the safety and effectiveness of drug therapy, as reported in this study, individual treatment recommendations should also consider the patient's underlying stroke and bleeding risk profile.

Tayeb, B. O., et al. (2017). "Topical anaesthetics for pain control during repair of dermal laceration." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2: Cd005364.
	BACKGROUND: Topical local anaesthetics provide effective analgesia for patients undergoing numerous superficial procedures, including repair of dermal lacerations. The need for cocaine in topical anaesthetic formulations has been questioned because of concern about adverse effects, thus novel preparations of cocaine-free anaesthetics have been developed. This review was originally published in 2011 and has been updated in 2017. OBJECTIVES: To assess whether benefits of non-invasive topical anaesthetic application occur at the expense of decreased analgesic efficacy. To compare the efficacy of various single-component or multi-component topical anaesthetic agents for repair of dermal lacerations. To determine the clinical necessity for topical application of the ester anaesthetic, cocaine. SEARCH METHODS: For this updated review, we searched the following databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 11), Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL; 2010 to December 2016), Embase (2010 to December 2016) and MEDLINE (2010 to December 2016). We did not limit this search by language or format of publication. We contacted manufacturers, international scientific societies and researchers in the field. Weemailed selected journalsand reviewed meta-registers of ongoing trials. For the previous version of this review, we searched these databases to November 2010. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated the efficacy and safety of topical anaesthetics for repair of dermal laceration in adult and paediatric participants. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. We contacted study authors for additional information when needed. We collected adverse event information from trial reports. We assessed methodological risk of bias for each included study and employed the GRADE approach to assess the overall quality of the evidence. MAIN RESULTS: The present updated review included 25 RCTs involving 3278 participants. The small number of trials in each comparison group and the heterogeneity of outcome measures precluded quantitative analysis of data for all but one outcome: pain intensity. In two pooled studies, the mean self-reported visual analogue scale (VAS; 0 to 100 mm) score for topical prilocaine-phenylephrine (PP) was higher than the mean self-reported VAS (0 to 100 mm) score for topical tetracaine-epinephrine-cocaine (TAC) by 5.59 points (95% confidence interval (CI) 2.16 to 13.35). Most trials that compared infiltrated and topical anaesthetics were at high risk of bias, which is likely to have affected their results. Researchers found that several cocaine-free topical anaesthetics provided effective analgesic efficacy. However, data regarding the efficacy of each topical agent are based mostly on single comparisons in trials with unclear or high risk of bias. Mild, self-limited erythematous skin induration occurred in one of 1042 participants who had undergone application of TAC. Investigators reported no serious complications among any of the participants treated with cocaine-based or cocaine-free topical anaesthetics. The overall quality of the evidence according to the GRADE system is low owing to limitations in design and implementation, imprecision of results and high probability of publication bias (selective reporting of data). Additional well-designed RCTs with low risk of bias are necessary before definitive conclusions can be reached. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We have found two new studies published since the last version of this review was prepared. We have added these studies to those previously included and have conducted an updated analysis, which resulted in the same review conclusions as were presented previously.Mostly descriptive analysis indicates that topical anaesthetics may offer an efficacious, non-invasive means of providing analgesia before suturing of dermal lacerations. Use of cocaine-based topical anaesthetics might be hard to justify, given the availability of other effective topical anaesthetics without cocaine. However, the overall quality of the evidence according to the GRADE system is low owing to limitations in design and implementation, imprecision of results and high probability of publication bias (selective reporting of data). Additional well-designed RCTs with low risk of bias are necessary before definitive conclusions can be reached.

Thom, H. H., et al. (2015). "Network meta-analysis combining individual patient and aggregate data from a mixture of study designs with an application to pulmonary arterial hypertension." BMC Med Res Methodol 15: 34.
	BACKGROUND: Network meta-analysis (NMA) is a methodology for indirectly comparing, and strengthening direct comparisons of two or more treatments for the management of disease by combining evidence from multiple studies. It is sometimes not possible to perform treatment comparisons as evidence networks restricted to randomized controlled trials (RCTs) may be disconnected. We propose a Bayesian NMA model that allows to include single-arm, before-and-after, observational studies to complete these disconnected networks. We illustrate the method with an indirect comparison of treatments for pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). METHODS: Our method uses a random effects model for placebo improvements to include single-arm observational studies into a general NMA. Building on recent research for binary outcomes, we develop a covariate-adjusted continuous-outcome NMA model that combines individual patient data (IPD) and aggregate data from two-arm RCTs with the single-arm observational studies. We apply this model to a complex comparison of therapies for PAH combining IPD from a phase-III RCT of imatinib as add-on therapy for PAH and aggregate data from RCTs and single-arm observational studies, both identified by a systematic review. RESULTS: Through the inclusion of observational studies, our method allowed the comparison of imatinib as add-on therapy for PAH with other treatments. This comparison had not been previously possible due to the limited RCT evidence available. However, the credible intervals of our posterior estimates were wide so the overall results were inconclusive. The comparison should be treated as exploratory and should not be used to guide clinical practice. CONCLUSIONS: Our method for the inclusion of single-arm observational studies allows the performance of indirect comparisons that had previously not been possible due to incomplete networks composed solely of available RCTs. We also built on many recent innovations to enable researchers to use both aggregate data and IPD. This method could be used in similar situations where treatment comparisons have not been possible due to restrictions to RCT evidence and where a mixture of aggregate data and IPD are available.

Tierney, J. F., et al. (2015). "How individual participant data meta-analyses have influenced trial design, conduct, and analysis." J Clin Epidemiol 68(11): 1325-1335.
	OBJECTIVES: To demonstrate how individual participant data (IPD) meta-analyses have impacted directly on the design and conduct of trials and highlight other advantages IPD might offer. STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Potential examples of the impact of IPD meta-analyses on trials were identified at an international workshop, attended by individuals with experience in the conduct of IPD meta-analyses and knowledge of trials in their respective clinical areas. Experts in the field who did not attend were asked to provide any further examples. We then examined relevant trial protocols, publications, and Web sites to verify the impacts of the IPD meta-analyses. A subgroup of workshop attendees sought further examples and identified other aspects of trial design and conduct that may inform IPD meta-analyses. RESULTS: We identified 52 examples of IPD meta-analyses thought to have had a direct impact on the design or conduct of trials. After screening relevant trial protocols and publications, we identified 28 instances where IPD meta-analyses had clearly impacted on trials. They have influenced the selection of comparators and participants, sample size calculations, analysis and interpretation of subsequent trials, and the conduct and analysis of ongoing trials, sometimes in ways that would not possible with systematic reviews of aggregate data. We identified additional potential ways that IPD meta-analyses could be used to influence trials. CONCLUSIONS: IPD meta-analysis could be better used to inform the design, conduct, analysis, and interpretation of trials.

Torrone, E. A., et al. (2018). "Prevalence of sexually transmitted infections and bacterial vaginosis among women in sub-Saharan Africa: An individual participant data meta-analysis of 18 HIV prevention studies." PLoS Med 15(2): e1002511.
	BACKGROUND: Estimates of sexually transmitted infection (STI) prevalence are essential for efforts to prevent and control STIs. Few large STI prevalence studies exist, especially for low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Our primary objective was to estimate the prevalence of chlamydia, gonorrhea, trichomoniasis, syphilis, herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2), and bacterial vaginosis (BV) among women in sub-Saharan Africa by age, region, and population type. METHODS AND FINDINGS: We analyzed individual-level data from 18 HIV prevention studies (cohort studies and randomized controlled trials; conducted during 1993-2011), representing >37,000 women, that tested participants for >/=1 selected STIs or BV at baseline. We used a 2-stage meta-analysis to combine data. After calculating the proportion of participants with each infection and standard error by study, we used a random-effects model to obtain a summary mean prevalence of each infection and 95% confidence interval (CI) across ages, regions, and population types. Despite substantial study heterogeneity for some STIs/populations, several patterns emerged. Across the three primary region/population groups (South Africa community-based, Southern/Eastern Africa community-based, and Eastern Africa higher-risk), prevalence was higher among 15-24-year-old than 25-49-year-old women for all STIs except HSV-2. In general, higher-risk populations had greater prevalence of gonorrhea and syphilis than clinic/community-based populations. For chlamydia, prevalence among 15-24-year-olds was 10.3% (95% CI: 7.4%, 14.1%; I2 = 75.7%) among women specifically recruited from higher-risk settings for HIV in Eastern Africa and was 15.1% (95% CI: 12.7%, 17.8%; I2 = 82.3%) in South African clinic/community-based populations. Among clinic/community-based populations, prevalence was generally greater in South Africa than in Southern/Eastern Africa for most STIs; for gonorrhea, prevalence among 15-24-year-olds was 4.6% (95% CI: 3.3%, 6.4%; I2 = 82.8%) in South Africa and was 1.7% (95% CI: 1.2%, 2.6%; I2 = 55.2%) in Southern/Eastern Africa. Across the three primary region/population groups, HSV-2 and BV prevalence was high among 25-49-year-olds (ranging from 70% to 83% and 33% to 44%, respectively). The main study limitation is that the data are not from random samples of the target populations. CONCLUSIONS: Combining data from 18 HIV prevention studies, our findings highlight important features of STI/BV epidemiology among sub-Saharan African women. This methodology can be used where routine STI surveillance is limited and offers a new approach to obtaining critical information on STI and BV prevalence in LMICs.

Townsend, R., et al. (2019). "Increasing value and reducing research waste in obstetrics: towards woman-centred research." Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol.
	Once awarded Archie Cochrane's infamous 'wooden spoon' for the limited application of randomised controlled trial evidence to questions of clinical practice, obstetricians were inspired to action and ultimately became leaders in the development of evidence based medicine.(1) This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Townsend, R., et al. (2019). "Prediction of pre-eclampsia: review of reviews." Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol 54(1): 16-27.
	OBJECTIVE: Primary studies and systematic reviews provide estimates of varying accuracy for different factors in the prediction of pre-eclampsia. The aim of this study was to review published systematic reviews to collate evidence on the ability of available tests to predict pre-eclampsia, to identify high-value avenues for future research and to minimize future research waste in this field. METHODS: MEDLINE, EMBASE and The Cochrane Library including DARE (Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects) databases, from database inception to March 2017, and bibliographies of relevant articles were searched, without language restrictions, for systematic reviews and meta-analyses on the prediction of pre-eclampsia. The quality of the included reviews was assessed using the AMSTAR tool and a modified version of the QUIPS tool. We evaluated the comprehensiveness of search, sample size, tests and outcomes evaluated, data synthesis methods, predictive ability estimates, risk of bias related to the population studied, measurement of predictors and outcomes, study attrition and adjustment for confounding. RESULTS: From 2444 citations identified, 126 reviews were included, reporting on over 90 predictors and 52 prediction models for pre-eclampsia. Around a third (n = 37 (29.4%)) of all reviews investigated solely biochemical markers for predicting pre-eclampsia, 31 (24.6%) investigated genetic associations with pre-eclampsia, 46 (36.5%) reported on clinical characteristics, four (3.2%) evaluated only ultrasound markers and six (4.8%) studied a combination of tests; two (1.6%) additional reviews evaluated primary studies investigating any screening test for pre-eclampsia. Reviews included between two and 265 primary studies, including up to 25 356 688 women in the largest review. Only approximately half (n = 67 (53.2%)) of the reviews assessed the quality of the included studies. There was a high risk of bias in many of the included reviews, particularly in relation to population representativeness and study attrition. Over 80% (n = 106 (84.1%)) summarized the findings using meta-analysis. Thirty-two (25.4%) studies lacked a formal statement on funding. The predictors with the best test performance were body mass index (BMI) > 35 kg/m(2) , with a specificity of 92% (95% CI, 89-95%) and a sensitivity of 21% (95% CI, 12-31%); BMI > 25 kg/m(2) , with a specificity of 73% (95% CI, 64-83%) and a sensitivity of 47% (95% CI, 33-61%); first-trimester uterine artery pulsatility index or resistance index > 90(th) centile (specificity 93% (95% CI, 90-96%) and sensitivity 26% (95% CI, 23-31%)); placental growth factor (specificity 89% (95% CI, 89-89%) and sensitivity 65% (95% CI, 63-67%)); and placental protein 13 (specificity 88% (95% CI, 87-89%) and sensitivity 37% (95% CI, 33-41%)). No single marker had a test performance suitable for routine clinical use. Models combining markers showed promise, but none had undergone external validation. CONCLUSIONS: This review of reviews calls into question the need for further aggregate meta-analysis in this area given the large number of published reviews subject to the common limitations of primary predictive studies. Prospective, well-designed studies of predictive markers, preferably randomized intervention studies, and combined through individual-patient data meta-analysis are needed to develop and validate new prediction models to facilitate the prediction of pre-eclampsia and minimize further research waste in this field. Copyright (c) 2018 ISUOG. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

Tritschler, T., et al. (2018). "Venous Thromboembolism: Advances in Diagnosis and Treatment." Jama 320(15): 1583-1594.
	Importance: Venous thromboembolism (VTE), comprising deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), is a common and potentially fatal disease. Objective: To summarize the advances in diagnosis and treatment of VTE of the past 5 years. Evidence Review: A systematic search was conducted in EMBASE Classic, EMBASE, Ovid MEDLINE, and other nonindexed citations using broad terms for diagnosis and treatment of VTE to find systematic reviews and meta-analyses, randomized trials, and prospective cohort studies published between January 1, 2013, and July 31, 2018. The 10th edition of the American College of Chest Physicians Antithrombotic Therapy Guidelines was screened to identify additional studies. Screening of titles, abstracts, and, subsequently, full-text articles was performed in duplicate, as well as data extraction and risk-of-bias assessment of the included articles. Findings: Thirty-two articles were included in this review. The application of an age-adjusted D-dimer threshold in patients with suspected PE has increased the number of patients in whom imaging can be withheld. The Pulmonary Embolism Rule-Out Criteria safely exclude PE when the pretest probability is low. The introduction of direct oral anticoagulants has allowed for a simplified treatment of VTE with a lower risk of bleeding regardless of etiology or extent of the VTE (except for massive PE) and has made extended secondary prevention more acceptable. Thrombolysis is best reserved for patients with massive PE or those with DVT and threatened limb loss. Insertion of inferior vena cava filters should be avoided unless anticoagulation is absolutely contraindicated in patients with recent acute VTE. Graduated compression stockings are no longer recommended to treat DVT but may be used when acute or chronic symptoms are present. Anticoagulation may no longer be indicated for patients with isolated distal DVT at low risk of recurrence. Conclusions and Relevance: Over the past 5 years, substantial progress has been made in VTE management, allowing for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies tailored to individual patient characteristics, preferences, and values.

Trivedi, M. K., et al. (2017). "A Review of hormone-based therapies to treat adult acne vulgaris in women." Int J Womens Dermatol 3(1): 44-52.
	Hormone-based therapies including combined oral contraceptive medications and spironolactone are considered effective therapies to treat adult acne in women. Our objective is to provide a concise and comprehensive overview of the types of hormonal therapy that are available to treat acne and comment on their efficacy and safety profiles for clinical practice. A systematic search using the PubMed Database was conducted to yield 36 relevant studies for inclusion in the review and several conclusions were drawn from the literature. Treatment with oral contraceptive pills leads to significant reductions in lesion counts across all lesion types compared with placebo. There were no consistent differences in efficacy between the different combined oral contraceptive formulations. In terms of risk, oral contraceptive pill users had three-times increased odds of venous thromboembolism versus non-users according to a recent meta-analysis (95% confidence interval 2.46-2.59). Data on oral contraceptive pill use and breast cancer risk are conflicting but individual patient risk factors and histories should be discussed and considered when prescribing these medications. However, use of these medications does confer measurable protection from endometrial and ovarian cancer. Spironolactone was also shown to be an effective alternative treatment with good tolerability. Combined oral contraceptive medications and spironolactone as adjuvant and monotherapies are safe and effective to treat women with adult acne. However, appropriate clinical examinations, screening, and individual risk assessments particularly for venous thromboembolism risk must be conducted prior to initiating therapy.

Trojian, T. H., et al. (2016). "AMSSM Scientific Statement Concerning Viscosupplementation Injections for Knee Osteoarthritis: Importance for Individual Patient Outcomes." Clin J Sport Med 26(1): 1-11.
	OBJECTIVE: Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disabling disease that produces severe morbidity reducing physical activity. Our position statement on treatment of knee OA with viscosupplementation injection [hyaluronic acid (HA)] versus steroid [intra-articular corticosteroid (IAS)] and placebo [intra-articular placebo (IAP)] is based on the evaluation of treatment effect by examining the number of subjects within a treatment arm that met the Outcome Measures in Rheumatoid Arthritis Clinical Trials-Osteoarthritis Research Society International (OMERACT-OARSI) criteria, which is different and more relevant than methods used in other reviews which examined if the average change across the treatment groups was clinically different. DATA SOURCES: We performed a systematic literature search for all relevant articles from 1960 to August 2014 in the MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane CENTRAL. We performed a network meta-analysis (NMA) of the relevant literature to determine if there is a benefit from HA as compared with IAS and IAP. MAIN RESULTS: Eleven articles met the inclusion criteria from the search strategy. On NMA, those subjects receiving HA were 15% and 11% more likely to respond to treatment by the OMERACT-OARSI criteria than those receiving IAS or IAP, respectively (P < 0.05 for both). CONCLUSIONS: In light of the aforementioned results of our NMA, the American Medical Society for Sport Medicine recommends the use of HA for the appropriate patients with knee OA.

Tse, A. H. W., et al. (2018). "Altered Pharmacokinetics in Prolonged Infusions of Sedatives and Analgesics Among Adult Critically Ill Patients: A Systematic Review." Clin Ther 40(9): 1598-1615.e1592.
	PURPOSE: The pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of many drugs are altered as a consequence of the pathophysiological changes associated with critical illness. The critically ill population presents challenges when titrating infusions of sedatives and analgesics to maintain optimal sedation and pain levels. This systematic review examined the PK data in critically ill adult patients with prolonged infusions (>24 hours) of commonly used sedatives and analgesics to highlight possible altered PK parameters compared with noncritically ill patients. METHODS: A literature search of PK studies was performed by using MEDLINE (1946-December 2017) and EMBASE (1910-December 2017); we identified further studies by citation tracking (Web of Science) and checked references of retrieved studies and review articles. All studies were included that were published in English, Chinese, or German; conducted in critically ill adult patients receiving lorazepam, midazolam, propofol, dexmedetomidine, sufentanil, alfentanil, remifentanil, morphine, or fentanyl infusion for >/=24 hours; and reported PK parameters. When appropriate, we conducted a meta-analysis on volume of distribution at steady state (Vdss) (liters), clearance (Cl) (liters per hour), and elimination t1/2 (hours) by using a DerSimonian-Laird random effects model to estimate the summary mean and 95% CIs. Results were compared with commonly reported PK ranges in 70-kg noncritically ill patients. FINDINGS: Thirty-three randomized controlled trials and prospective cohort studies were identified involving 1803 adult critically ill patients with 35 drug treatment arms: fifteen midazolam (n=906) studies, three dexmedetomidine (n=561), nine propofol (n=165), four lorazepam (n=86), one morphine (n=20), two remifentanil (n=55), and one sufentanil (n=10). Each study showed large variations in Vdss, Cl, and elimination t1/2 within and between individual participants. High clinical and methodical heterogeneity between the dexmedetomidine studies prevented the direct comparison of PK parameters between critically ill and noncritically ill patients. Use of midazolam, propofol, and lorazepam in critically ill patients was associated with at least a 2- to 4-fold increase in Vdss compared with noncritically ill patients; Cl decreased approximately 2-fold for midazolam and 10-fold for morphine. Critically ill patients receiving prolonged infusions of midazolam, propofol, remifentanil, and sufentanil had at least 2-fold longer elimination or terminal t1/2 than noncritically ill patients. IMPLICATIONS: These findings show a marked difference in many PK parameters from those reported for noncritically ill patients. Initiatives to improve the delivery of prolonged sedatives and analgesic infusions should be informed by PK parameters (Vdss, context-sensitive t1/2, and elimination t1/2) and data derived from critically ill patients.

Tsujimoto, Y., et al. (2019). "No consistent evidence of data availability bias existed in recent individual participant data meta-analyses: a meta-epidemiological study." J Clin Epidemiol.
	OBJECTIVES: The objective of the study was to assess trial-level factors associated with the contribution of individual participant data (IPD) to IPD meta-analyses, and to quantify the data availability bias, namely the difference between the effect estimates of trials contributing IPD and those not contributing IPD in the same systematic reviews (SRs). STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: We included SRs of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with IPD meta-analyses since 2011. We extracted trial-level characteristics and examined their association with IPD contribution. To assess the data availability bias, we retrieved odds ratios from the original RCT articles, calculated the ratio of odds ratios (RORs) between aggregate data (AD) meta-analyses of RCTs contributing IPD and those of RCTs not contributing IPD for each SR, and meta-analytically synthesized RORs. RESULTS: Of 728 eligible RCTs included in 31 SRs, 321 (44%) contributed IPD, whereas 407 (56%) did not. A recent publication year, larger number of participants, adequate allocation concealment, and impact factor >/=10 were associated with IPD contribution. We found the SRs yielded widely different estimates of RORs. Overall, there was no significant difference in the pooled effect estimates of AD meta-analyses between RCTs contributing and not contributing IPD (ROR 1.01, 95% confidence interval, 0.86-1.19). CONCLUSIONS: There was no consistent evidence of a data availability bias in recent IPD meta-analyses of RCTs with dichotomous outcomes. Higher methodological qualities of trials were associated with IPD contribution.

Tucker, K. L., et al. (2015). "Individual patient data meta-analysis of self-monitoring of blood pressure (BP-SMART): a protocol." BMJ Open 5(9): e008532.
	INTRODUCTION: Self-monitoring of blood pressure is effective in reducing blood pressure in hypertension. However previous meta-analyses have shown a considerable amount of heterogeneity between studies, only part of which can be accounted for by meta-regression. This may be due to differences in design, recruited populations, intervention components or results among patient subgroups. To further investigate these differences, an individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis of self-monitoring of blood pressure will be performed. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will identify randomised trials that have compared patients with hypertension who are self-monitoring blood pressure with those who are not and invite trialists to provide IPD including clinic and/or ambulatory systolic and diastolic blood pressure at baseline and all follow-up points where both intervention and control groups were measured. Other data requested will include measurement methodology, length of follow-up, cointerventions, baseline demographic (age, gender) and psychosocial factors (deprivation, quality of life), setting, intensity of self-monitoring, self-monitored blood pressure, comorbidities, lifestyle factors (weight, smoking) and presence or not of antihypertensive treatment. Data on all available patients will be included in order to take an intention-to-treat approach. A two-stage procedure for IPD meta-analysis, stratified by trial and taking into account age, sex, diabetes and baseline systolic BP will be used. Exploratory subgroup analyses will further investigate non-linear relationships between the prespecified variables. Sensitivity analyses will assess the impact of trials which have and have not provided IPD. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study does not include identifiable data. Results will be disseminated in a peer-reviewed publication and by international conference presentations. CONCLUSIONS: IPD analysis should help the understanding of which self-monitoring interventions for which patient groups are most effective in the control of blood pressure.

Tzanetakos, C., et al. (2018). "Cost Effectiveness of Exenatide Once Weekly Versus Insulin Glargine and Liraglutide for the Treatment of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus in Greece." Clin Drug Investig 38(1): 67-77.
	OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the long-term cost effectiveness of exenatide once weekly (ExQW) versus insulin glargine (IG) or liraglutide 1.2 mg (Lira1.2mg) for the treatment of adult patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) not adequately controlled on oral antidiabetic drug (OAD) therapy in Greece. METHODS: The published and validated Cardiff Diabetes Model was used to project clinical and economic outcomes over a patient's lifetime. Clinical data were retrieved from a head-to-head clinical trial (DURATION 3) and a published network meta-analysis comparing ExQW with IG or Lira1.2mg, respectively. Following a Greek third-party payer perspective, direct medical costs related to drug acquisition, consumables, developed micro- and macrovascular complications, maintenance treatment, as well as treatment-related adverse events were considered. Cost and utility data were extracted from literature and publicly available official sources and assigned to model parameters to calculate total quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and total costs as well as incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Sensitivity analyses explored the impact of changes in input data. RESULTS: Over a patient's lifetime, ExQW was associated with 0.458 or 0.039 incremental QALYs compared with IG or Lira1.2mg, respectively, at additional costs of euro2061 or euro110, respectively. The ICER for ExQW was euro4499/QALY compared with IG and euro2827/QALY compared with Lira1.2mg. Results were robust across various one-way and scenario analyses. At the defined willingness-to-pay threshold of euro36,000/QALY, probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that ExQW had a 100 or 88.2% probability of being cost effective relative to IG or Lira1.2mg, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: ExQW was estimated to be cost effective relative to IG or Lira1.2mg for the treatment of T2DM in adults not adequately controlled on OAD therapy in Greece.

Upadhaya, S., et al. (2019). "Impact of acetylsalicylic acid on primary prevention of cardiovascular diseases: A meta-analysis of randomized trials." Eur J Prev Cardiol 26(7): 746-749.
	Numerous studies have investigated use of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) for prevention of cardiovascular deaths. The vast majority of the work in this area has focused on secondary prevention. However, underuse of ASA still remains a major issue. Fewer studies have investigated the impact of ASA on primary prevention of cardiovascular death. A meta-analysis of individual participant data from six randomized studies, published in 2009, showed decrease in serious vascular events but at the cost of causing increased bleeding and hemorrhagic stroke. Recent studies have raised a number of key questions regarding the benefits and risks of using ASA for primary prevention.

van Baaren, G. J. and B. W. Mol (2017). "Re: Cervical length screening for prevention of preterm birth in singleton pregnancy with threatened preterm labor: systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials using individual patient-level data. V. Berghella, M. Palacio, A. Ness, Z. Alfirevic, K. H. Nicolaides and G. Saccone. Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol 2017; 49: 322-329." Ultrasound Obstet Gynecol 49(3): 301-302.
	
van Hoogenhuijze, N. E., et al. (2019). "Endometrial scratching prior to IVF; does it help and for whom? A systematic review and meta-analysis." Hum Reprod Open 2019(1): hoy025.
	STUDY QUESTION: What is the effect of endometrial scratching in patients with or without prior failed ART cycles on live birth (LBR) and clinical pregnancy rates (CPR)? SUMMARY ANSWER: It remains unclear if endometrial scratching improves the chance of pregnancy and, if so, for whom. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Endometrial scratching is hypothesized to improve embryo implantation in ART. Multiple studies have been published, but it remains unclear if endometrial scratching actually improves pregnancy rates and, if so, for which patients. STUDY DESIGN SIZE DURATION: For this review, a systematic search for published articles on endometrial scratching and ART was performed on 12 February 2018, in Pubmed, Embase and the Cochrane Library. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS SETTING METHODS: Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated endometrial scratching in the cycle prior to the stimulation cycle and reported CPR or LBR were included. RCTs investigating the effect of scratching during the stimulation cycle, or prior to cryo-thaw cycles were excluded. Studies were assessed using the Cochrane Risk of Bias tool. The effect of scratching was assessed for three different patient groups: patients with no prior IVF/ICSI treatment (Group 0), patients with one failed full IVF/ICSI cycle, including cryo-thaw cycles (Group 1) and patients with two or more failed full IVF/ICSI cycles (Group 2). A meta-analysis was performed when statistical heterogeneity was low; otherwise, a descriptive analysis was performed. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Fourteen RCTs involving 2537 participants were included. Most RCTs contained a high or unclear risk of bias on one or more items. Substantial clinical and statistical heterogeneity was present; therefore meta-analysis for LBR and CPR could only be performed on Group 1. For this group, no differences between scratch and control were found for both LBR (risk ratio (RR) 1.01 [95%CI 0.68-1.51]) and CPR (RR 1.04 [95%CI 0.74-1.45]). For Groups 0 and 2, pooled analysis could not be performed, and for both groups the results of the individual RCTs were negative, neutral and positive. Miscarriage and multiple pregnancy rates were evaluated for the three groups (0, 1 and 2) together. Both outcomes were not significantly different between scratch and control (miscarriage rate RR 0.82 [95%CI 0.57-1.17] and multiple pregnancy rate RR 1.06 [95%CI 0.84-1.35]). Subgroup analysis, excluding trials with a risk of unintentional endometrial injury in the control group, was performed for Group 0 and 2 for LBR and CPR, and for the overall groups for miscarriage rate and multiple pregnancy rate. This reduced the heterogeneity and allowed for pooled analysis in these subgroups. Results of pooled analysis for the subgroups of Group 0 and 2 showed no significant difference for LBR, but CPR was significantly improved after endometrial scratching (Group 0 RR 1.28 [95%CI 1.02-1.62] and Group 2 RR 2.03 [95%CI 1.20-3.43]). Subgroup analysis of the overall groups showed no significant difference for miscarriage and multiple pregnancy rate. LIMITATIONS REASONS FOR CAUTION: The main limitations were that many RCTs had a high or unclear risk of bias on one or several items, clinical heterogeneity was still present despite categorizing into three populations, and that not all RCTs could be included in the analyses because separate data for our three groups could not be provided. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: It remains unclear if endometrial scratching improves the chance of pregnancy for women undergoing ART and, if so, for whom. This means endometrial scratching should not be offered in daily practice until results from large and well-designed RCTs and an individual patient data analysis become available. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: No specific funding was sought for the study. The Department of Reproductive Medicine and Gynaecology funds of the University Medical Center of Utrecht were used to support the authors throughout the study period and preparation of the manuscript. None of the authors has a conflict of interest to declare. REGISTRATION NUMBER: Not applicable.

Varigonda, A. L., et al. (2015). "Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis: Early Treatment Responses of Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors in Pediatric Major Depressive Disorder." J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry 54(7): 557-564.
	OBJECTIVE: Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the first-line pharmacological treatment for pediatric major depressive disorder (MDD). We conducted a meta-analysis to examine the following: the time-course of response to SSRIs in pediatric depression; whether higher doses of SSRIs are associated with an improved response in pediatric depression; differences in efficacy between SSRI agents; and whether the time-course and magnitude of response to SSRIs is different in pediatric and adult patients with MDD. METHOD: We searched PubMed and CENTRAL for randomized controlled trials comparing SSRIs to placebo for the treatment of pediatric MDD. We extracted weekly symptom data from trials to characterize the trajectory of pharmacological response to SSRIs. Pooled estimates of treatment effect were calculated based on standardized mean differences between treatment and placebo groups. RESULTS: The meta-analysis included 13 pediatric MDD trials with a total of 3,004 patients. A logarithmic model indicating that the greatest benefits of SSRIs occurred early in treatment best fit the longitudinal data (log[week] = 0.10, 95% CI = 0.06-0.15, p < .0001). There were no significant differences based on maximum SSRI dose or between particular SSRI agents. SSRIs were demonstrated to have a smaller benefit in pediatric compared to adult MDD. CONCLUSION: Treatment gains in pediatric MDD are greatest early in treatment and are, on average, minimal after 4 weeks of SSRI pharmacotherapy in pediatric MDD. Further research is needed using individual patient data to examine the power of early SSRI response (e.g., 2-4 weeks) to predict outcomes in short-term pharmacological trials.

Verde, P. E. (2019). "The hierarchical metaregression approach and learning from clinical evidence." Biom J 61(3): 535-557.
	The hierarchical metaregression (HMR) approach is a multiparameter Bayesian approach for meta-analysis, which generalizes the standard mixed effects models by explicitly modeling the data collection process in the meta-analysis. The HMR allows to investigate the potential external validity of experimental results as well as to assess the internal validity of the studies included in a systematic review. The HMR automatically identifies studies presenting conflicting evidence and it downweights their influence in the meta-analysis. In addition, the HMR allows to perform cross-evidence synthesis, which combines aggregated results from randomized controlled trials to predict effectiveness in a single-arm observational study with individual participant data (IPD). In this paper, we evaluate the HMR approach using simulated data examples. We present a new real case study in diabetes research, along with a new R package called jarbes (just a rather Bayesian evidence synthesis), which automatizes the complex computations involved in the HMR.

Verde, P. E., et al. (2016). "Bayesian evidence synthesis for exploring generalizability of treatment effects: a case study of combining randomized and non-randomized results in diabetes." Stat Med 35(10): 1654-1675.
	In this paper, we present a unified modeling framework to combine aggregated data from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with individual participant data (IPD) from observational studies. Rather than simply pooling the available evidence into an overall treatment effect, adjusted for potential confounding, the intention of this work is to explore treatment effects in specific patient populations reflected by the IPD. In this way, by collecting IPD, we can potentially gain new insights from RCTs' results, which cannot be seen using only a meta-analysis of RCTs. We present a new Bayesian hierarchical meta-regression model, which combines submodels, representing different types of data into a coherent analysis. Predictors of baseline risk are estimated from the individual data. Simultaneously, a bivariate random effects distribution of baseline risk and treatment effects is estimated from the combined individual and aggregate data. Therefore, given a subgroup of interest, the estimated treatment effect can be calculated through its correlation with baseline risk. We highlight different types of model parameters: those that are the focus of inference (e.g., treatment effect in a subgroup of patients) and those that are used to adjust for biases introduced by data collection processes (e.g., internal or external validity). The model is applied to a case study where RCTs' results, investigating efficacy in the treatment of diabetic foot problems, are extrapolated to groups of patients treated in medical routine and who were enrolled in a prospective cohort study.

Veroniki, A. A., et al. (2019). "Retrieval of individual patient data depended on study characteristics: a randomized controlled trial." J Clin Epidemiol 113: 176-188.
	OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to examine the effect of providing a financial incentive to authors of randomized clinical trials (RCTs) to obtain individual patient data (IPD). STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Parallel-group RCT with authors identified in the RCTs eligible for two systematic reviews. The authors were randomly allocated to the intervention (financial incentive with several contact approaches) or control group (using the same contact approaches). Studied outcomes are proportion of authors who provided IPD, time to obtain IPD, and completeness of IPD received. RESULTS: Of the 129 authors contacted, 37 authors suggested or contacted a person or funder providing relevant details or showed interest to collaborate, whereas 45 authors directed us to contact a person or funder, lacked resources or time, did not have ownership or approval to share the IPD, or claimed IPD was too old. None of the authors shared their IPD. We contacted 17 sponsors and received two complete IPD datasets from one sponsor. The time to obtain IPD was >1 year after a sponsor's positive response. Common barriers included study identification, data ownership, limited data access, and required IPD licenses. CONCLUSION: IPD sharing may depend on study characteristics, including funding type, study size, study risk of bias, and treatment effect, but not on providing a financial incentive.

Veroniki, A. A., et al. (2016). "Contacting authors to retrieve individual patient data: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial." Trials 17(1): 138.
	BACKGROUND: Individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis is considered the "gold standard" for exploring the effectiveness of interventions in different subgroups of patients. However, obtaining IPD is time-consuming and contact with the researchers responsible for the original trials is usually required. To date, there are no studies evaluating different strategies to optimize the process for retrieval of IPD from such researchers. Our aim is to examine the impact of providing incentives to the researchers responsible for the trials eligible for a meta-analysis to submit their IPD. METHODS/DESIGN: We updated our previously published systematic reviews for type 1 diabetes mellitus comparing long- and intermediate-acting insulin regimens (from January 2013 to June 2015) and for Alzheimer's dementia comparing cognitive enhancers (from January 2015 to May 2015). Eligible were randomized controlled trials (RCTs) fulfilling the eligibility criteria of the systematic reviews. We will randomly allocate authors of the reports of these RCTs into an intervention or control group. Those allocated to the intervention group will be contacted by email, mail, and phone, and will be asked to provide the IPD from their RCT and will be given a financial incentive. Those allocated to the control group will be contacted by email, mail, and phone, but will not receive a financial incentive. Our primary outcome will be the proportion of authors who provide the IPD. The secondary outcomes will be the time to return the dataset (defined as the period between the information request and the authors' response with the dataset), and completeness of data. We will compare the response rates in the two groups using the odds ratio and the corresponding 95 % confidence interval. We will also use binary logistic regression and cox regression analyses to examine whether different RCT characteristics, such as study size and sponsor information, influence the probability of providing IPD and the time needed to share the data. DISCUSSION: This study will determine whether a financial incentive affects response rates when seeking IPD from the original researchers. We will disseminate our findings in an open access scientific journal and present results at national and international conferences. TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered in Clinical Trials.gov, ID number NCT02569411 . Date of registration 5 October 2015.

Veroniki, A. A., et al. (2016). "Comparative safety and effectiveness of cognitive enhancers for Alzheimer's dementia: protocol for a systematic review and individual patient data network meta-analysis." BMJ Open 6(1): e010251.
	INTRODUCTION: Alzheimer's dementia (AD) is the most common cause of dementia, and several organisations, such as the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, suggest that management of patients with AD should be tailored to their needs. To date, little research has been conducted on the treatment effect in different subgroups of patients with AD. The aim of this study is to examine the comparative effectiveness and safety of cognitive enhancers for different patient characteristics. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will update our previous literature search from January 2015 forward, using the same terms and electronic databases (eg, MEDLINE) from our previous review. We will additionally search grey literature and scan the reference lists of the included studies. Randomised clinical trials of any duration conducted at any time comparing cognitive enhancers alone or in any combination against other cognitive enhancers, or placebo in adults with AD will be eligible. The outcomes of interest are cognition according to the Mini-Mental State Examination, and overall serious adverse events. For each outcome and treatment comparison, we will perform a Bayesian hierarchical random-effects meta-analysis combining the individual patient data (IPD) from each eligible study. If the identified treatment comparisons form a connected network diagram, we will perform an IPD network meta-analysis (NMA) to estimate subgroup effects for patients with different characteristics, such as AD severity and sex. We will combine aggregated data from studies that we will not be able to obtain IPD, with the IPD provided by the original authors, in a single model. We will use the PRISMA-IPD and PRISMA-NMA statements to report our findings. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The findings of this study will be of interest to stakeholders, including decision makers, guideline developers, clinicians, methodologists and patients, and they will help to improve guidelines for the management of patients with AD. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42015023507.

Veroniki, A. A., et al. (2016). "A scoping review of indirect comparison methods and applications using individual patient data." BMC Med Res Methodol 16: 47.
	BACKGROUND: Several indirect comparison methods, including network meta-analyses (NMAs), using individual patient data (IPD) have been developed to synthesize evidence from a network of trials. Although IPD indirect comparisons are published with increasing frequency in health care literature, there is no guidance on selecting the appropriate methodology and on reporting the methods and results. METHODS: In this paper we examine the methods and reporting of indirect comparison methods using IPD. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Library, and CINAHL from inception until October 2014. We included published and unpublished studies reporting a method, application, or review of indirect comparisons using IPD and at least three interventions. RESULTS: We identified 37 papers, including a total of 33 empirical networks. Of these, only 9 (27 %) IPD-NMAs reported the existence of a study protocol, whereas 3 (9 %) studies mentioned that protocols existed without providing a reference. The 33 empirical networks included 24 (73 %) IPD-NMAs and 9 (27 %) matching adjusted indirect comparisons (MAICs). Of the 21 (64 %) networks with at least one closed loop, 19 (90 %) were IPD-NMAs, 13 (68 %) of which evaluated the prerequisite consistency assumption, and only 5 (38 %) of the 13 IPD-NMAs used statistical approaches. The median number of trials included per network was 10 (IQR 4-19) (IPD-NMA: 15 [IQR 8-20]; MAIC: 2 [IQR 3-5]), and the median number of IPD trials included in a network was 3 (IQR 1-9) (IPD-NMA: 6 [IQR 2-11]; MAIC: 2 [IQR 1-2]). Half of the networks (17; 52 %) applied Bayesian hierarchical models (14 one-stage, 1 two-stage, 1 used IPD as an informative prior, 1 unclear-stage), including either IPD alone or with aggregated data (AD). Models for dichotomous and continuous outcomes were available (IPD alone or combined with AD), as were models for time-to-event data (IPD combined with AD). CONCLUSIONS: One in three indirect comparison methods modeling IPD adjusted results from different trials to estimate effects as if they had come from the same, randomized, population. Key methodological and reporting elements (e.g., evaluation of consistency, existence of study protocol) were often missing from an indirect comparison paper.

Vickers, A. D., et al. (2019). "Relative efficacy of interventions in the treatment of second-line non-small cell lung cancer: a systematic review and network meta-analysis." BMC Cancer 19(1): 353.
	BACKGROUND: Locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) that has progressed after first-line treatment has a poor prognosis. Recent randomized clinical trials (RCTs) have demonstrated survival benefits of alternative treatments to docetaxel. However, information is lacking on which patients benefit the most and what drug or regimen is optimal. We report a systematic review and network meta-analysis (NMA) of second-line treatments in all subgroup combinations determined by histology, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression, and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutation. METHODS: MEDLINE, PubMed, EMBASE, Biosciences Information Service (using the Dialog Platform), Cochrane Library, and abstracts from scientific meetings were searched for RCTs published up to September 2015. Key outcomes were overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS). Bayesian hierarchical exchangeable NMAs were conducted to calculate mean survival times and relative differences for eight subgroups, using docetaxel as the reference comparator. For OS, the NMA was based on hazard ratios applied to a first-order fractional polynomial model fitted to the reference treatment. For PFS, a second-order fractional polynomial model was fitted to reconstructed patient-level data for the entire network of evidence. RESULTS: The search identified 30 studies containing 17 different treatment regimens. Docetaxel plus ramucirumab was associated with a significant improvement in OS and PFS, relative to docetaxel, regardless of patient type. Docetaxel plus nintedanib showed similar efficacy to docetaxel plus ramucirumab in the nonsquamous populations. EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) erlotinib and gefitinib showed superior levels of efficacy in EGFR mutation-positive populations and the one PD-1 immunotherapy (nivolumab) studied showed superior efficacy in the populations exhibiting high PD-L1 expression. CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of head-to-head comparisons, we performed a mixed-treatment analysis to synthesize evidence of the efficacy of each treatment. Benefits are optimized by targeting specific treatments to individual patients guided by histology, PD-L1 expression, and EGFR mutation status. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: This review is registered in PROSPERO (registration number: CRD42014013780 available at www.crd.york.ac.uk/PROSPERO ).

Villain, B., et al. (2015). "Feasibility of individual patient data meta-analyses in orthopaedic surgery." BMC Med 13: 131.
	BACKGROUND: The number of individual patient data meta-analyses published is very low especially in surgical domains. Our aim was to assess the feasibility of individual patient data (IPD) meta-analyses in orthopaedic surgery by determining whether trialists agree to send IPD for eligible trials. METHODS: We performed a literature search to identify relevant research questions in orthopaedic surgery. For each question, we developed a protocol synopsis for an IPD meta-analysis and identified all related randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with results published since 2000. Corresponding authors of these RCTs were sent personalized emails that presented a project for an IPD meta-analysis corresponding to one of the research questions, with a link to the protocol synopsis, and asking for IPD from their RCT. We guaranteed patient confidentiality and secure data storage, and offered co-authorship and coverage of costs related to extraction. RESULTS: We identified 38 research questions and 273 RCTs related to these questions. We could contact 217 of the 273 corresponding authors (79 %; 56 had unavailable or non-functional email addresses) and received 68/273 responses (25 %): 21 authors refused to share IPD, 10 stated that our request was under consideration and 37 agreed to send IPD. Four corresponding authors required authorship and three others asked for financial support to send the IPD. Overall, we could obtain IPD for 5,110 of 33,602 eligible patients (15 %). Among the 38 research questions, only one IPD meta-analysis could be potentially initiated because we could receive IPD for more than 50 % of participants. CONCLUSION: The present study illustrates the difficulties in initiating IPD meta-analyses in orthopaedic surgery. Significant efforts must be made to improve data sharing.

Virdee, P. S., et al. (2017). "Protocol for Combined Analysis of FOXFIRE, SIRFLOX, and FOXFIRE-Global Randomized Phase III Trials of Chemotherapy +/- Selective Internal Radiation Therapy as First-Line Treatment for Patients With Metastatic Colorectal Cancer." JMIR Res Protoc 6(3): e43.
	BACKGROUND: In colorectal cancer (CRC), unresectable liver metastases are associated with a poor prognosis. The FOXFIRE (an open-label randomized phase III trial of 5-fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, and folinic acid +/- interventional radioembolization as first-line treatment for patients with unresectable liver-only or liver-predominant metastatic colorectal cancer), SIRFLOX (randomized comparative study of FOLFOX6m plus SIR-Spheres microspheres versus FOLFOX6m alone as first-line treatment in patients with nonresectable liver metastases from primary colorectal carcinoma), and FOXFIRE-Global (assessment of overall survival of FOLFOX6m plus SIR-Spheres microspheres versus FOLFOX6m alone as first-line treatment in patients with nonresectable liver metastases from primary colorectal carcinoma in a randomized clinical study) clinical trials were designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of combining first-line chemotherapy with selective internal radiation therapy (SIRT) using yttrium-90 resin microspheres, also called transarterial radioembolization. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this analysis is to prospectively combine clinical data from 3 trials to allow adequate power to evaluate the impact of chemotherapy with SIRT on overall survival. METHODS: Eligible patients are adults with histologically confirmed CRC and unequivocal evidence of liver metastases which are not treatable by surgical resection or local ablation with curative intent at the time of study entry. Patients may also have limited extrahepatic metastases. Final analysis will take place when all participants have been followed up for a minimum of 2 years. RESULTS: Efficacy and safety estimates derived using individual participant data (IPD) from SIRFLOX, FOXFIRE, and FOXFIRE-Global will be pooled using 2-stage prospective meta-analysis. Secondary outcome measures include progression-free survival (PFS), liver-specific PFS, health-related quality of life, response rate, resection rate, and adverse event profile. The large study population will facilitate comparisons of low frequency adverse events and allow for more robust safety analyses. The potential treatment benefit in those patients who present with disease confined to the liver will be investigated using 1-stage IPD meta-analysis. Efficacy will be analyzed on an intention-to-treat basis. CONCLUSIONS: This analysis will assess the impact of SIRT combined with chemotherapy on overall survival in the first-line treatment of metastatic CRC. If positive, the results will change the standard of care for this disease. TRIAL REGISTRATION: FOXFIRE ISRCTN Registry ISRCTN83867919; http://www.isrctn.com/ISRCTN83867919 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6oN7axrvA). SIRFLOX ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00724503; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ ct2/show/NCT00724503 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6oN7lEGbD). FOXFIRE-Global ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01721954; https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01721954 (Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/ 6oN7vvQvG).

Vo, T. T., et al. (2019). "A NOVEL APPROACH FOR IDENTIFYING AND ADDRESSING CASE-MIX HETEROGENEITY IN INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPANT DATA META-ANALYSIS." Res Synth Methods.
	Case-mix heterogeneity across studies complicates meta-analyses. As a result of this, treatments that are equally effective on patient subgroups may appear to have different effectiveness on patient populations with different case mix. It is therefore important that meta-analyses be explicit for what patient population they describe the treatment effect. To achieve this, we develop a new approach for meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials, which use individual patient data (IPD) from all trials to infer the treatment effect for the patient population in a given trial, based on direct standardization using either outcome regression (OCR) or inverse probability weighting (IPW). Accompanying random-effect meta-analysis models are developed. The new approach enables disentangling heterogeneity due to case-mix from that due to beyond case-mix reasons.

Vogel, N., et al. (2017). "Return-to-work coordination programmes for improving return to work in workers on sick leave." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 3: Cd011618.
	BACKGROUND: To limit long-term sick leave and associated consequences, insurers, healthcare providers and employers provide programmes to facilitate disabled people's return to work. These programmes include a variety of coordinated and individualised interventions. Despite the increasing popularity of such programmes, their benefits remain uncertain. We conducted a systematic review to determine the long-term effectiveness of return-to-work coordination programmes compared to usual practice in workers at risk for long-term disability. OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of return-to-work coordination programmes versus usual practice for workers on sick leave or disability. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 11), MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and PsycINFO up to 1 November 2016. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that enrolled workers absent from work for at least four weeks and randomly assigned them to return-to-work coordination programmes or usual practice. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently screened titles, abstracts and full-text articles for study eligibility; extracted data; and assessed risk of bias from eligible trials. We contacted authors for additional data where required. We conducted random-effects meta-analyses and used the GRADE approach to rate the quality of the evidence. MAIN RESULTS: We identified 14 studies from nine countries that enrolled 12,568 workers. Eleven studies focused on musculoskeletal problems, two on mental health and one on both. Most studies (11 of 14) followed workers 12 months or longer. Risk of bias was low in 10 and high in 4 studies, but findings were not sensitive to their exclusion.We found no benefits for return-to-work coordination programmes on return-to-work outcomes.For short-term follow-up of six months, we found no effect on time to return to work (hazard ratio (HR) 1.32, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.93 to 1.88, low-quality evidence), cumulative sickness absence (mean difference (MD) -16.18 work days per year, 95% CI -32.42 to 0.06, moderate-quality evidence), the proportion of participants at work at end of the follow-up (risk ratio (RR) 1.06, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.30, low-quality evidence) or on the proportion of participants who had ever returned to work, that is, regardless of whether they had remained at work until last follow-up (RR 0.87, 95% CI 0.63 to 1.19, very low-quality evidence).For long-term follow-up of 12 months, we found no effect on time to return to work (HR 1.25, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.66, low-quality evidence), cumulative sickness absence (MD -14.84 work days per year, 95% CI -38.56 to 8.88, low-quality evidence), the proportion of participants at work at end of the follow-up (RR 1.06, 95% CI 0.99 to 1.15, low-quality evidence) or on the proportion of participants who had ever returned to work (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.09, moderate-quality evidence).For very long-term follow-up of longer than 12 months, we found no effect on time to return to work (HR 0.93, 95% CI 0.74 to 1.17, low-quality evidence), cumulative sickness absence (MD 7.00 work days per year, 95% CI -15.17 to 29.17, moderate-quality evidence), the proportion of participants at work at end of the follow-up (RR 0.94, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.07, low-quality evidence) or on the proportion of participants who had ever returned to work (RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.02, low-quality evidence).We found only small benefits for return-to-work coordination programmes on patient-reported outcomes. All differences were below the minimal clinically important difference (MID). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Offering return-to-work coordination programmes for workers on sick leave for at least four weeks results in no benefits when compared to usual practice. We found no significant differences for the outcomes time to return to work, cumulative sickness absence, the proportion of participants at work at end of the follow-up or the proportion of participants who had ever returned to work at short-term, long-term or very long-term follow-up. For patient-reported outcomes, we found only marginal effects below the MID. The quality of the evidence ranged from very low to moderate across all outcomes.

Wang, C., et al. (2019). "Reevaluation of the post-marketing safety of Xuebijing injection based on real-world and evidence-based evaluations." Biomed Pharmacother 109: 1523-1531.
	AIMS: To determine the causes of adverse reactions associated with Xuebijing injection and provide medical evidence for its safe and rational post-marketing use in clinical practice. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used prospective nested case-control and prescription sequence analysis designs. Using data from the Hospital Information System, patients exhibiting trigger signals after receiving Xuebijing injection were classified as suspected allergic patients. Logistic regression analysis was performed on the risk factors associated with Xuebijing-induced allergic reactions. Randomized controlled and cohort studies on adverse drug reactions to Xuebijing injection were screened from databases and the results were subjected to meta-analysis. RESULTS: The overall incidence of allergic reactions or anaphylaxis tended to increase with dosage and patient's age. Moreover, compared with Xuebijing alone, co-administration of Xuebijing with other drugs or agents (including Ringer's sodium acetate solution, reduced glutathione, aspirin-DL-lysine, and torasemide) increased the risk of adverse reactions. The use of glucose as a vehicle also provoked a greater incidence of allergic reactions than that by the use of 0.9% w/v sodium chloride as a vehicle. Adverse reactions occurred more frequently in patients receiving indicated dosages than in those receiving off-label dosages. CONCLUSIONS: Adverse reactions to Xuebijing injections were correlated with vehicle type, dosage, age, and drug combination. There was no clear association between patient's condition at admission and suspected adverse reactions to Xuebijing injection. Factors influencing the adverse reactions to Xuebijing injection must be fully considered in clinical practice.

Wang, C. H., et al. (2015). "Active compression-decompression resuscitation and impedance threshold device for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: a systematic review and metaanalysis of randomized controlled trials." Crit Care Med 43(4): 889-896.
	OBJECTIVE: Active compression-decompression resuscitation and impedance threshold device are proposed to improve survival of patients of cardiac arrest by lowering intrathoracic pressure and increasing cardiac output. The results of clinical studies of active compression-decompression resuscitation or impedance threshold device were controversial. This metaanalysis pooled results of randomized controlled trials to examine whether active compression-decompression resuscitation or impedance threshold device would improve outcomes of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in comparison with standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation and to explore factors modifying these effects. DATA SOURCES: Medline and Embase were searched from inception to September 2013. STUDY SELECTION: Randomized controlled trials comparing active compression-decompression resuscitation or impedance threshold device with standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients were selected. There were no restrictions for language, population, or publication year. DATA EXTRACTION: Data on study characteristics, including patients, intervention details, and outcome measures, were independently extracted. DATA SYNTHESIS: Fifteen trials, including 16,088 patients, were identified from 331 potentially relevant references. Return of spontaneous circulation was designated as the primary outcome. The pooled result showed no significant improvement in return of spontaneous circulation by active compression-decompression resuscitation or impedance threshold device in comparison with standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation (risk ratio, 1.04; 95% CI, 0.93-1.16; I, 46%). There was also no significant difference in survival or neurologic outcome at hospital discharge between active compression-decompression resuscitation or impedance threshold device and standard cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The meta-regression indicated that this minimal effect might be modified by two important prognostic factors, that is, witnessed status and response time. After adjustment of these two factors, impedance threshold device appeared to improve return of spontaneous circulation, which could be further augmented by advanced airway use. CONCLUSIONS: Active compression-decompression resuscitation or impedance threshold device seemed not to improve return of spontaneous circulation in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest patients. The meta-regression indicated two probable prognostic factors causing this minimal effect. Nonetheless, these findings referred to differences between trials and could not necessarily be extrapolated to individual patients. The individual patient-level extrapolation may need to be solved by a future randomized controlled trial.

Wang, J., et al. (2018). "Comparative efficacy and safety of oral or transdermal opioids in the treatment of knee or hip osteoarthritis: a systematic review and Bayesian network meta-analysis protocol." BMJ Open 8(10): e022142.
	INTRODUCTION: Osteoarthritis is a common degenerative joint disease that eventually leads to disability and poor quality of life. The main symptoms are joint pain and mobility disorders. If the patient has severe pain or other analgesics are contraindicated, opioids may be a viable treatment option. To evaluate and compare the efficacy and safety of opioids in the treatment of knee or hip osteoarthritis, we will integrate direct and indirect evidence using a Bayesian network meta-analysis to establish hierarchies of these drugs. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will search the Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online, Excerpta Medica database, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Cochrane Library, Web of Science and PsycINFO databases as well as published and unpublished research in international registries and regulatory agency websites for osteoarthritis reports published prior to 5 January 2018. There will be no restrictions on the language. Randomised clinical trials that compare oral or transdermal opioids with other various opioids, placebo or no treatment for patients with knee or hip osteoarthritis will be included. The primary outcomes of efficacy will be pain and function. We will use pain and function scales to evaluate the main outcomes. The secondary outcomes of safety will be defined as the proportion of patients who have stopped treatment due to side effects. Pairwise meta-analyses and Bayesian network meta-analyses will be performed for all related outcome measures. We will conduct subgroup analyses and sensitivity analyses to assess the robustness of our findings. The Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluations framework will be used to assess the quality of the evidence contributing to each network assessment. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study does not require formal ethical approval because individual patient data will not be included. The findings will be disseminated through peer-reviewed publications or conference presentations. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018085503.

Wang, L., et al. (2016). "Efficacy and Safety of Laser Surgery and Transurethral Resection of the Prostate for Treating Benign Prostate Hyperplasia: a Network Meta-analysis." Asian Pac J Cancer Prev 17(9): 4281-4288.
	BACKGROUND: Traditional meta-analyses or systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) have been used to compare laser surgeries and transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) for benign prostate hyperplasia (BHP), but they cannot provide a hierarchy regarding efficacy and safety of treatment. OBJECTIVE: We therefore performed a network meta-analysis (NMA) to compare and create hierarchies for efficacy and safety of TUPR and laser surgeries for BPH. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched for reports of RCTs published up to April 25, 2015. After methodological quality assessment and data extraction, we performed an NMA to compare TURP and laser surgeries for BPH. RESULTS: We ranked the treatments of TURP and laser surgeries for BPH. For IPSS at 6 months, holmium laser resection of the prostate (HoLRP) ranked the first-best and at 12 months, holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (HoLEP). For Qmax at 6 and 12 months, HoLEP ranked the first-best; for operative time it was TURP; for cathedral removal time, diode laser enucleation of the prostate (DiLEP) ranked the first-best. CONCLUSIONS: Although TURP is considered the gold standard for treating BPH, it is not better in terms of efficacy and safety compared with the laser surgery. Our NMA created hierarchies for the 9 types of surgery in terms of efficacy and safety, which should help clinicians choose the best approach for the individual patient.

Wang, Z. X., et al. (2019). "Correlation of Milestone Restricted Mean Survival Time Ratio With Overall Survival Hazard Ratio in Randomized Clinical Trials of Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis." JAMA Netw Open 2(5): e193433.
	Importance: Immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have unique patterns of response and survival that differ from conventional chemotherapies. Novel intermediate end points are urgently required to detect the early signals of ICI activity. Objective: To evaluate milestone rate (Kaplan-Meier estimates of survival probabilities at given time points) and milestone restricted mean survival time (RMST, the area under survival curves up to given time points) as potential intermediate end points for ICI trials. Data Sources: Electronic databases (pre-MEDLINE, MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials) were searched for randomized clinical trials published between January 1, 2000, and December 31, 2017. Study Selection: Phase 2 and phase 3 randomized clinical trials evaluating ICIs in advanced solid tumors. Data Extraction and Synthesis: Two investigators extracted the data and reconstructed individual patient data to estimate the milestone rate or milestone RMST from the published Kaplan-Meier curves. Main Outcomes and Measures: Trial-level milestone rates or milestone RMSTs were estimated for 6-month and 9-month progression-free survival (PFS) and 9-month and 12-month overall survival (OS). A weighted linear regression model evaluated the correlations of ratios of milestone rates or milestone RMSTs with OS hazard ratios (HRs). Results: Twenty-six trials examining 8 different tumor types were identified, including 12892 patients. Overall survival HR was correlated with the ratio of 9-month OS milestone rate (R2 = 0.45; 95% CI, 0.27-0.74), and with the ratio of 12-month OS milestone rate (R2 = 0.40; 95% CI, 0.22-0.70). The ratio of 9-month OS milestone RMST (R2 = 0.60; 95% CI, 0.28-0.74) and ratio of 12-month OS milestone RMST were correlated with OS HR (R2 = 0.64; 95% CI, 0.42-0.78). No correlations were observed between OS HR and the ratio of 6-month or 9-month PFS milestone rates or milestone RMSTs. Conclusions and Relevance: Ratios of OS milestone RMSTs had a stronger correlation with OS HRs than ratios of OS milestone rates, whereas ratios of PFS milestone rates and ratios of PFS milestone RMSTs were not correlated with OS HRs. The OS milestone RMST could be further studied as an intermediate end point in future ICI trials.

Wasan, H. S., et al. (2017). "First-line selective internal radiotherapy plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer (FOXFIRE, SIRFLOX, and FOXFIRE-Global): a combined analysis of three multicentre, randomised, phase 3 trials." Lancet Oncol 18(9): 1159-1171.
	BACKGROUND: Data suggest selective internal radiotherapy (SIRT) in third-line or subsequent therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer has clinical benefit in patients with colorectal liver metastases with liver-dominant disease after chemotherapy. The FOXFIRE, SIRFLOX, and FOXFIRE-Global randomised studies evaluated the efficacy of combining first-line chemotherapy with SIRT using yttrium-90 resin microspheres in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer with liver metastases. The studies were designed for combined analysis of overall survival. METHODS: FOXFIRE, SIRFLOX, and FOXFIRE-Global were randomised, phase 3 trials done in hospitals and specialist liver centres in 14 countries worldwide (Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, New Zealand, Portugal, South Korea, Singapore, Spain, Taiwan, the UK, and the USA). Chemotherapy-naive patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (WHO performance status 0 or 1) with liver metastases not suitable for curative resection or ablation were randomly assigned (1:1) to either oxaliplatin-based chemotherapy (FOLFOX: leucovorin, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin) or FOLFOX plus single treatment SIRT concurrent with cycle 1 or 2 of chemotherapy. In FOXFIRE, FOLFOX chemotherapy was OxMdG (oxaliplatin modified de Gramont chemotherapy; 85 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin infusion over 2 h, L-leucovorin 175 mg or D,L-leucovorin 350 mg infusion over 2 h, and 400 mg/m(2) bolus fluorouracil followed by a 2400 mg/m(2) continuous fluorouracil infusion over 46 h). In SIRFLOX and FOXFIRE-Global, FOLFOX chemotherapy was modified FOLFOX6 (85 mg/m(2) oxaliplatin infusion over 2 h, 200 mg leucovorin, and 400 mg/m(2) bolus fluorouracil followed by a 2400 mg/m(2) continuous fluorouracil infusion over 46 h). Randomisation was done by central minimisation with four factors: presence of extrahepatic metastases, tumour involvement of the liver, planned use of a biological agent, and investigational centre. Participants and investigators were not masked to treatment. The primary endpoint was overall survival, analysed in the intention-to-treat population, using a two-stage meta-analysis of pooled individual patient data. All three trials have completed 2 years of follow-up. FOXFIRE is registered with the ISRCTN registry, number ISRCTN83867919. SIRFLOX and FOXFIRE-Global are registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, numbers NCT00724503 (SIRFLOX) and NCT01721954 (FOXFIRE-Global). FINDINGS: Between Oct 11, 2006, and Dec 23, 2014, 549 patients were randomly assigned to FOLFOX alone and 554 patients were assigned FOLFOX plus SIRT. Median follow-up was 43.3 months (IQR 31.6-58.4). There were 411 (75%) deaths in 549 patients in the FOLFOX alone group and 433 (78%) deaths in 554 patients in the FOLFOX plus SIRT group. There was no difference in overall survival (hazard ratio [HR] 1.04, 95% CI 0.90-1.19; p=0.61). The median survival time in the FOLFOX plus SIRT group was 22.6 months (95% CI 21.0-24.5) compared with 23.3 months (21.8-24.7) in the FOLFOX alone group. In the safety population containing patients who received at least one dose of study treatment, as treated, the most common grade 3-4 adverse event was neutropenia (137 [24%] of 571 patients receiving FOLFOX alone vs 186 (37%) of 507 patients receiving FOLFOX plus SIRT). Serious adverse events of any grade occurred in 244 (43%) of 571 patients receiving FOLFOX alone and 274 (54%) of 507 patients receiving FOLFOX plus SIRT. 10 patients in the FOLFOX plus SIRT group and 11 patients in the FOLFOX alone group died due to an adverse event; eight treatment-related deaths occurred in the FOLFOX plus SIRT group and three treatment-related deaths occurred in the FOLFOX alone group. INTERPRETATION: Addition of SIRT to first-line FOLFOX chemotherapy for patients with liver-only and liver-dominant metastatic colorectal cancer did not improve overall survival compared with that for FOLFOX alone. Therefore, early use of SIRT in combination with chemotherapy in unselected patients with metastatic colorectal cancer cannot be recommended. To further define the role of SIRT in metastatic colorectal cancer, careful patient selection and studies investigating the role of SIRT as consolidation therapy after chemotherapy are needed. FUNDING: Bobby Moore Fund of Cancer Research UK, Sirtex Medical.

Wei, Y., et al. (2015). "Meta-analysis of time-to-event outcomes from randomized trials using restricted mean survival time: application to individual participant data." Stat Med 34(21): 2881-2898.
	Meta-analysis of time-to-event outcomes using the hazard ratio as a treatment effect measure has an underlying assumption that hazards are proportional. The between-arm difference in the restricted mean survival time is a measure that avoids this assumption and allows the treatment effect to vary with time. We describe and evaluate meta-analysis based on the restricted mean survival time for dealing with non-proportional hazards and present a diagnostic method for the overall proportional hazards assumption. The methods are illustrated with the application to two individual participant meta-analyses in cancer. The examples were chosen because they differ in disease severity and the patterns of follow-up, in order to understand the potential impacts on the hazards and the overall effect estimates. We further investigate the estimation methods for restricted mean survival time by a simulation study.

Weir, C. J., et al. (2018). "Dealing with missing standard deviation and mean values in meta-analysis of continuous outcomes: a systematic review." BMC Med Res Methodol 18(1): 25.
	BACKGROUND: Rigorous, informative meta-analyses rely on availability of appropriate summary statistics or individual participant data. For continuous outcomes, especially those with naturally skewed distributions, summary information on the mean or variability often goes unreported. While full reporting of original trial data is the ideal, we sought to identify methods for handling unreported mean or variability summary statistics in meta-analysis. METHODS: We undertook two systematic literature reviews to identify methodological approaches used to deal with missing mean or variability summary statistics. Five electronic databases were searched, in addition to the Cochrane Colloquium abstract books and the Cochrane Statistics Methods Group mailing list archive. We also conducted cited reference searching and emailed topic experts to identify recent methodological developments. Details recorded included the description of the method, the information required to implement the method, any underlying assumptions and whether the method could be readily applied in standard statistical software. We provided a summary description of the methods identified, illustrating selected methods in example meta-analysis scenarios. RESULTS: For missing standard deviations (SDs), following screening of 503 articles, fifteen methods were identified in addition to those reported in a previous review. These included Bayesian hierarchical modelling at the meta-analysis level; summary statistic level imputation based on observed SD values from other trials in the meta-analysis; a practical approximation based on the range; and algebraic estimation of the SD based on other summary statistics. Following screening of 1124 articles for methods estimating the mean, one approximate Bayesian computation approach and three papers based on alternative summary statistics were identified. Illustrative meta-analyses showed that when replacing a missing SD the approximation using the range minimised loss of precision and generally performed better than omitting trials. When estimating missing means, a formula using the median, lower quartile and upper quartile performed best in preserving the precision of the meta-analysis findings, although in some scenarios, omitting trials gave superior results. CONCLUSIONS: Methods based on summary statistics (minimum, maximum, lower quartile, upper quartile, median) reported in the literature facilitate more comprehensive inclusion of randomised controlled trials with missing mean or variability summary statistics within meta-analyses.

Weir, I. R., et al. (2019). "Multivariate meta-analysis model for the difference in restricted mean survival times." Biostatistics.
	In randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with time-to-event outcomes, the difference in restricted mean survival times (RMSTD) offers an absolute measure of the treatment effect on the time scale. Computation of the RMSTD relies on the choice of a time horizon, $\tau$. In a meta-analysis, varying follow-up durations may lead to the exclusion of RCTs with follow-up shorter than $\tau$. We introduce an individual patient data multivariate meta-analysis model for RMSTD estimated at multiple time horizons. We derived the within-trial covariance for the RMSTD enabling the synthesis of all data by borrowing strength from multiple time points. In a simulation study covering 60 scenarios, we compared the statistical performance of the proposed method to that of two univariate meta-analysis models, based on available data at each time point and based on predictions from flexible parametric models. Our multivariate model yields smaller mean squared error over univariate methods at all time points. We illustrate the method with a meta-analysis of five RCTs comparing transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) with surgical replacement in patients with aortic stenosis. Over 12, 24, and 36 months of follow-up, those treated by TAVR live 0.28 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.01 to 0.56], 0.46 (95% CI $-$0.08 to 1.01), and 0.79 (95% CI $-$0.43 to 2.02) months longer on average compared to those treated by surgery, respectively.

Weissenfels, A., et al. (2019). "Comparison of Whole-Body Electromyostimulation versus Recognized Back-Strengthening Exercise Training on Chronic Nonspecific Low Back Pain: A Randomized Controlled Study." Biomed Res Int 2019: 5745409.
	Background: Low back pain (LBP) affects almost everyone at least once in their lifetime. Various meta-analyses show promising effects on pain reduction for conventional exercise. However, the lack of time and, especially for pain patients, a fear of movement ("kinesiophobia") as well as functional limitations often oppose participation in such activities. In contrast, the advantage of novel training technologies like whole-body electromyostimulation (WB-EMS) lies particularly in a joint-friendly, time-effective, and highly customized training protocol and might be an alternative option for LBP patients. A meta-analysis of individual patient data and a comparison of WB-EMS against a passive control group confirmed the proof principle. Thus, the aim of this randomized controlled trial is to compare WB-EMS with a recognized back-strengthening exercise protocol to determine the corresponding effects on chronic, nonspecific LBP in people suffering from this. Methods and Findings: This randomized, controlled multicenter study is focused on novel and time-effective training technologies and LBP. In this contribution, the focus is primarily on the comparison of WB-EMS against a comparable conventional exercise training (CT). One hundred ten nonspecific chronic LBP patients, 40-70 years old, were randomly allocated to the intervention arms (WB-EMS: 55 vs. CT: 55). Both groups completed a 12-week program (WB-EMS: 1 x 20 min/week vs. CT: 1 x 45 min/week) specifically dedicated to LBP. The selection of the content of the active control group was based on the principles of WB-EMS training, which uses electrical stimulation to train mainly strength and stabilization in a very short time. Exercises were similar in all groups, with the focus on strengthening and stabilizing the trunk. Outcome measures were assessed by a four-week pain diary (before and during the last four weeks of intervention) as well as an isometric maximum strength measurement of the trunk muscles at baseline and after 12 weeks of intervention. Primary study endpoint was average pain intensity at the lumbar spine. Secondary study endpoints were maximum isometric strength of the back and the abdominals. The mean pain intensity of LBP decreased significantly in both groups (WB-EMS: -22.3 +/- 20.9% vs. CT: -30.2 +/- 43.9%; p < 0.001), however, without significant intergroup difference (p=0.160). A similar result was observed for "maximum isometric strength of trunk muscles." The increase in back strength (WB-EMS: 15.6 +/- 24.9% vs. CT: 23.0 +/- 30.9%) was highly significant in both groups (p=0.001), and similar changes were observed for the trunk flexors (WB-EMS: 17.6 +/- 24.8% vs. CT: 18.1 +/- 24.8%). Also, at the secondary endpoint, no significant difference in pairwise comparison was observed in both cases (extension: p=0.297; flexion: p=0.707). Conclusion: In summary, both, WB-EMS and conventional back-strengthening protocol are comparably effective in reducing nonspecific chronic LBP in this dedicated cohort. The result is particularly positive in terms of time effectiveness and offers an adequate alternative for people with limited time resources or other barriers to conventional training methods.

Weitz, E., et al. (2017). "Individual patient data meta-analysis of combined treatments versus psychotherapy (with or without pill placebo), pharmacotherapy or pill placebo for adult depression: a protocol." BMJ Open 7(2): e013478.
	INTRODUCTION: There are many proven treatments (psychotherapy, pharmacotherapy or their combination) for the treatment of depression. Although there is growing evidence for the effectiveness of combination treatment (psychotherapy + pharmacotherapy) over pharmacotherapy alone, psychotherapy alone or psychotherapy plus pill placebo, for depression, little is known about which specific groups of patients may respond best to combined treatment versus monotherapy. Conventional meta-analyses techniques have limitations when tasked with examining whether specific individual characteristics moderate the effect of treatment on depression. Therefore, this protocol outlines an individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis to explore which patients, with which clinical characteristics, have better outcomes in combined treatment compared with psychotherapy (alone or with pill placebo), pharmacotherapy and pill placebo. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Study searches are completed using an established database of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on the psychological treatment of adult depression that has previously been reported. Searches were conducted in PubMed, PsycInfo, Embase and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. RCTs comparing combination treatment (psychotherapy + pharmacotherapy) with psychotherapy (with or without pill placebo), pharmacotherapy or pill placebo for the treatment of adult depression will be included. Study authors of eligible trials will be contacted and asked to contribute IPD. Conventional meta-analysis techniques will be used to examine differences between studies that have contributed data and those that did not. Then, IPD will be harmonised and analysis using multilevel regression will be conducted to examine effect moderators of treatment outcomes. DISSEMINATION: Study results outlined above will be published in peer-reviewed journals. Study results will contribute to better understanding whether certain patients respond best to combined treatment or other depression treatments and provide new information on moderators of treatment outcome that can be used by patients, clinicians and researchers. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42016039028.

Welsch, P., et al. (2018). "Serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for fibromyalgia." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2: Cd010292.
	BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia is a clinically defined chronic condition of unknown etiology characterized by chronic widespread pain that often co-exists with sleep disturbances, cognitive dysfunction and fatigue. People with fibromyalgia often report high disability levels and poor quality of life. Drug therapy, for example, with serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), focuses on reducing key symptoms and improving quality of life. This review updates and extends the 2013 version of this systematic review. OBJECTIVES: To assess the efficacy, tolerability and safety of serotonin and noradrenaline reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) compared with placebo or other active drug(s) in the treatment of fibromyalgia in adults. SEARCH METHODS: For this update we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, the US National Institutes of Health and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for published and ongoing trials and examined the reference lists of reviewed articles, to 8 August 2017. SELECTION CRITERIA: We selected randomized, controlled trials of any formulation of SNRIs against placebo or any other active treatment of fibromyalgia in adults. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three review authors independently extracted data, examined study quality, and assessed risk of bias. For efficacy, we calculated the number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) for pain relief of 50% or greater and of 30% or greater, patient's global impression to be much or very much improved, dropout rates due to lack of efficacy, and the standardized mean differences (SMD) for fatigue, sleep problems, health-related quality of life, mean pain intensity, depression, anxiety, disability, sexual function, cognitive disturbances and tenderness. For tolerability we calculated number needed to treat for an additional harmful outcome (NNTH) for withdrawals due to adverse events and for nausea, insomnia and somnolence as specific adverse events. For safety we calculated NNTH for serious adverse events. We undertook meta-analysis using a random-effects model. We assessed the evidence using GRADE and created a 'Summary of findings' table. MAIN RESULTS: We added eight new studies with 1979 participants for a total of 18 included studies with 7903 participants. Seven studies investigated duloxetine and nine studies investigated milnacipran against placebo. One study compared desvenlafaxine with placebo and pregabalin. One study compared duloxetine with L-carnitine. The majority of studies were at unclear or high risk of bias in three to five domains.The quality of evidence of all comparisons of desvenlafaxine, duloxetine and milnacipran versus placebo in studies with a parallel design was low due to concerns about publication bias and indirectness, and very low for serious adverse events due to concerns about publication bias, imprecision and indirectness. The quality of evidence of all comparisons of duloxetine and desvenlafaxine with other active drugs was very low due to concerns about publication bias, imprecision and indirectness.Duloxetine and milnacipran had no clinically relevant benefit over placebo for pain relief of 50% or greater: 1274 of 4104 (31%) on duloxetine and milnacipran reported pain relief of 50% or greater compared to 591 of 2814 (21%) participants on placebo (risk difference (RD) 0.09, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.11; NNTB 11, 95% CI 9 to 14). Duloxetine and milnacipran had a clinically relevant benefit over placebo in patient's global impression to be much or very much improved: 888 of 1710 (52%) on duloxetine and milnacipran (RD 0.19, 95% CI 0.12 to 0.26; NNTB 5, 95% CI 4 to 8) reported to be much or very much improved compared to 354 of 1208 (29%) of participants on placebo. Duloxetine and milnacipran had a clinically relevant benefit compared to placebo for pain relief of 30% or greater. RD was 0.10; 95% CI 0.08 to 0.12; NNTB 10, 95% CI 8 to 12. Duloxetine and milnacipran had no clinically relevant benefit for fatigue (SMD -0.13, 95% CI -0.18 to -0.08; NNTB 18, 95% CI 12 to 29), compared to placebo. There were no differences between either duloxetine or milnacipran and placebo in reducing sleep problems (SMD -0.07; 95 % CI -0.15 to 0.01). Duloxetine and milnacipran had no clinically relevant benefit compared to placebo in improving health-related quality of life (SMD -0.20, 95% CI -0.25 to -0.15; NNTB 11, 95% CI 8 to 14).There were 794 of 4166 (19%) participants on SNRIs who dropped out due to adverse events compared to 292 of 2863 (10%) of participants on placebo (RD 0.07, 95% CI 0.04 to 0.10; NNTH 14, 95% CI 10 to 25). There was no difference in serious adverse events between either duloxetine, milnacipran or desvenlafaxine and placebo (RD -0.00, 95% CI -0.01 to 0.00).There was no difference between desvenlafaxine and placebo in efficacy, tolerability and safety in one small trial.There was no difference between duloxetine and desvenlafaxine in efficacy, tolerability and safety in two trials with active comparators (L-carnitine, pregabalin). AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The update did not change the major findings of the previous review. Based on low- to very low-quality evidence, the SNRIs duloxetine and milnacipran provided no clinically relevant benefit over placebo in the frequency of pain relief of 50% or greater, but for patient's global impression to be much or very much improved and in the frequency of pain relief of 30% or greater there was a clinically relevant benefit. The SNRIs duloxetine and milnacipran provided no clinically relevant benefit over placebo in improving health-related quality of life and in reducing fatigue. Duloxetine and milnacipran did not significantly differ from placebo in reducing sleep problems. The dropout rates due to adverse events were higher for duloxetine and milnacipran than for placebo. On average, the potential benefits of duloxetine and milnacipran in fibromyalgia were outweighed by their potential harms. However, a minority of people with fibromyalgia might experience substantial symptom relief without clinically relevant adverse events with duloxetine or milnacipran.We did not find placebo-controlled studies with other SNRIs than desvenlafaxine, duloxetine and milnacipran.

Welten, C. C., et al. (2016). "Early Nonresponse in the Antipsychotic Treatment of Acute Mania: A Criterion for Reconsidering Treatment? Results From an Individual Patient Data Meta-Analysis." J Clin Psychiatry 77(9): e1117-e1123.
	OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether early nonresponse to antipsychotic treatment of acute mania predicts treatment failure and, if so, to establish the best definition or criterion of an early nonresponse. DATA SOURCES: Short-term efficacy studies assessing antipsychotics that were submitted to the Dutch Medicines Evaluation Board during an 11-year period as part of the marketing authorization application for the indication of acute manic episode of bipolar disorder. Pharmaceutical companies provided their raw patient data, which enabled us to perform an individual patient data meta-analysis. STUDY SELECTION: All double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trials assessing the efficacy of antipsychotics for acute manic episode of bipolar disorder were included (10 trials). DATA EXTRACTION: All patients with data available for completer analysis (N = 1,243), symptom severity scores on the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) at weeks 0, 1, and 2 and at study end point (week 3 or 4). RESULTS: The a priori chances of nonresponse and nonremission at study end point were 40.9% (95% CI, 38.2%-43.6%) and 65.3% (95% CI, 62.0%-68.6%), respectively. Early nonresponse in weeks 1 and 2, defined by cutoff scores ranging from a </= 10% to a </= 50% reduction in symptoms compared to baseline on the YMRS, significantly predicted nonresponse (</= 0% symptom reduction) and nonremission (YMRS score higher than 8) in week 3. The predictive value of early nonresponse (PVnr_se) at week 1 for both nonresponse and nonremission at study end point declined linearly with increasing cutoff scores of early nonresponse; nonresponse: 76.0% (95% CI, 69.7%-82.3%) for a </= 10% response to 48.7% (95% CI, 45.5%-51.9%) for a </= 50% response; nonremission: 92.2% (95% CI, 88.3%-96.1%) for a </= 10% response to 76.8% (95% CI, 74.4%-79.5%) for a </= 50% response. A similar linear decline was observed for increasing cutoff scores of early nonresponse at week 2 for nonresponse, but not for nonremission at end point: nonresponse 90.3% (95% CI, 84.6%-96.0%) for a </= 10% response to 65.0% (95% CI, 61.4%-68.6%) for a </= 50% response; nonremission: 94.2% (95% CI, 89.7%-98.7%) for a </= 10% response and 93.2% (95% CI, 93.1%-95.1%) for a </= 50% response. Specific antipsychotic characteristics did not modify these findings at either time point (week 1: P = .127; week 2: P = .213). CONCLUSIONS: When patients fail to respond early (1-2 weeks) after the initiation of antipsychotic treatment for acute mania, clinicians should reconsider their treatment choice using a 2-stage strategy.

Wen, Y., et al. (2018). "Bone marrow-derived mononuclear cell therapy for nonischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy-A meta-analysis." Eur J Clin Invest 48(4).
	OBJECTIVE: The therapeutic effects of bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells (BMMNCs) transplantation in patients with nonischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) are still under debate. Current randomized controlled trials (RCTs) reported conflicting results. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of BMMNCs transplantation on left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) in patients with nonischaemic DCM. METHODS: A comprehensive search of PubMed, EMBASE and Cochrane Controlled Trials Register was performed. We included RCTs reporting data on LVEF in patients with nonischaemic DCM after BMMNCs transplantation. RESULTS: Seven RCTs including 463 patients were included. BMMNCs transplantation significantly improved LVEF by 3.79% (95% CI: 0.56%-7.03%; P = .007) and LVESV by -24.36 mL (95% CI: -46.36 to -2.36 mL; P = .03), while had no impact on the risk of all-cause death (OR 0.92; 95% CI: 0.41 to 2.08%; P = .84). Subgroup analysis demonstrated a more significant improvement of LVEF in patients with longer follow-up (~15 months to 5 years) than shorter ones (12 months). Moreover, using bone marrow mononuclear cells was more effective than using G-CSF-stimulated bone marrow/peripheral blood stem cells in the improvement of LVEF in patients with nonischaemic DCM. CONCLUSIONS: Bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells transplantation is associated with a moderate, but significant, improvement in LVEF in patients with nonischaemic DCM. This meta-analysis supports further RCT conductions using BMMNCs transplantation with larger patient's population and longer term follow-up.

White, I. R. and E. Rapsomaniki (2015). "Covariate-adjusted measures of discrimination for survival data." Biom J 57(4): 592-613.
	MOTIVATION: Discrimination statistics describe the ability of a survival model to assign higher risks to individuals who experience earlier events: examples are Harrell's C-index and Royston and Sauerbrei's D, which we call the D-index. Prognostic covariates whose distributions are controlled by the study design (e.g. age and sex) influence discrimination and can make it difficult to compare model discrimination between studies. Although covariate adjustment is a standard procedure for quantifying disease-risk factor associations, there are no covariate adjustment methods for discrimination statistics in censored survival data. OBJECTIVE: To develop extensions of the C-index and D-index that describe the prognostic ability of a model adjusted for one or more covariate(s). METHOD: We define a covariate-adjusted C-index and D-index for censored survival data, propose several estimators, and investigate their performance in simulation studies and in data from a large individual participant data meta-analysis, the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration. RESULTS: The proposed methods perform well in simulations. In the Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration data, the age-adjusted C-index and D-index were substantially smaller than unadjusted values. The study-specific standard deviation of baseline age was strongly associated with the unadjusted C-index and D-index but not significantly associated with the age-adjusted indices. CONCLUSIONS: The proposed estimators improve meta-analysis comparisons, are easy to implement and give a more meaningful clinical interpretation.

Whitlock, E. P., et al. (2015). U.S. Preventive Services Task Force Evidence Syntheses, formerly Systematic Evidence Reviews. Aspirin Use in Adults: Cancer, All-Cause Mortality, and Harms: A Systematic Evidence Review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force. Rockville (MD), Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (US).
	BACKGROUND: Cancer is the second leading cause of death in United States. The net benefit for aspirin (ASA) in cardiovascular disease (CVD) primary prevention is controversial due to increased risks from bleeding alongside relatively modest cardiovascular benefits. Consideration of additional cancer prevention effects might clarify whether long-term, low-dose ASA may offer an overall health benefit for the two top causes of mortality in the United States. PURPOSE: We conducted this review, alongside two companion reviews, to support the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) in making evidence-based recommendations about the use of ASA for primary prevention in adults and to understand the risks of regular ASA use. DATA SOURCES: We used a systematic evidence review published in 2012 for cancer-specific and all-cause mortality outcomes and conducted a bridge search of PubMed, MEDLINE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from 2011 to October 2013. For bleeding harms, we used four published systematic evidence reviews and conducted a search of PubMed, MEDLINE, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials from January 1, 2010 to June 3, 2014 in PubMed and MEDLINE. We also reviewed all studies included and excluded for companion USPSTF reviews on ASA for colorectal cancer and CVD prevention and checked for additional relevant studies by reviewing reference lists of included studies and other published reviews or meta-analyses. STUDY SELECTION: Two investigators independently reviewed 4,393 abstracts and 336 articles against previously established inclusion and exclusion criteria and critically appraised studies for risk of bias using USPSTF methods, supplemented by the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale for cohort studies and the Assessment of Multiple Systematic Reviews for systematic reviews. We included fair- or good-quality trials evaluating the effect of 75 mg or greater ASA at least every other day for 12 months or longer versus no ASA, in the absence of other antithrombotic medications, on cancer mortality, all-cause mortality, cancer incidence, and harms, primarily related to serious bleeding. We also included cohort studies meeting these criteria to evaluate potential harms of ASA. DATA EXTRACTION AND ANALYSIS: For fair- and good-quality studies, one investigator abstracted study characteristics and outcomes into structured tables and a second verified accuracy. We assessed trials for heterogeneity using I(2) statistics and pooled trial-level results when appropriate using Mantel-Haenszel fixed effects to calculate relative risks (RRs) and Peto's odds ratios (OR). We focused on cancer effects and bleeding harms in CVD primary prevention trials, but also assessed results after including secondary CVD and colorectal adenoma prevention trials. Expected outcome rates with ASA intervention were calculated by multiplying simulated control group event rates for benefits as well as harms from the CVD primary prevention trials by the pooled RR estimate (and bounds of 95% confidence interval [CI]). The expected outcome rates were subtracted from the simulated control group rate to calculate the absolute risk reduction with 95% CI. We calculated expected outcomes using the minimum, maximum, and median control group rate for a given outcome to examine the range of results suggested by the primary studies. RESULTS: When restricting analyses to 10 CVD primary prevention trials with a median of 6.0 years of followup, we found a nonsignificantly reduced mortality due to cancer among 103,787 individuals randomized to ASA or no ASA over 3.7 to 10.1 years (RR, 0.96 [95% CI, 0.87 to 1.06]), corresponding to 0.14 fewer cancer deaths (95% CI, 0.21 more to 0.45 fewer) per 1,000 person-years. Effects on all cancer mortality remained nonstatistically significant in sensitivity analyses exploring the effect of excluding trials of greater than 100 mg per day, of average length of scheduled treatment less than 5 years, or of every other day dosing. Only when including trials of both primary and secondary CVD prevention with doses up to 1,200 mg per day and requiring daily dosing within a scheduled treatment duration of 4 years or more could we find a statistically significant cancer mortality benefit (RR, 0.83 [95% CI, 0.70 to 0.98]) as reported by others. All-cause mortality in 10 CVD primary prevention trials was statistically significantly reduced (RR, 0.94 [95% CI, 0.88 to 0.99]), corresponding to 0.57 fewer deaths (95% CI, 0.10 fewer to 1.15 fewer) per 1,000 person-years, but was sensitive to including longer-term followup results from one trial and some other changes in inclusion or exclusion criteria. When also including CVD secondary prevention trials, all-cause mortality was similarly reduced and remained statistically significant when requiring daily dosing, dosages of 100 mg or less, or at least 4 years of followup, but not when substituting longer-term followup results. Few reduced deaths were cardiovascular and reduced nonvascular noncancer deaths appeared to play a prominent role, but this deserves further exploration. Among 72,926 participants in six CVD primary prevention trials, cancer incidence was similar between ASA and no ASA groups (RR, 0.98 [95% CI, 0.93 to 1.04]), corresponding to 0.20 fewer incident cases (95% CI, 0.39 more to 0.69 fewer) per 1,000 person-years, and was only statistically significantly reduced when including both primary and secondary CVD prevention trials and restricting to daily dose interventions with at least 4 years of followup with doses ranging from 75 to 500 mg per day (RR, 0.86 [95% CI, 0.74 to 0.99]). Data from primary prevention populations are currently too sparse to robustly examine cancer incidence or mortality for any cancer type other than colorectal cancer, which is examined in a companion report. Among 10 CVD primary prevention trials, the risk of major GI bleeding was increased (OR, 1.59 [95% CI, 1.32 to 1.91]), corresponding to 0.29 more cases of bleeding (95% CI, 0.44 more to 0.16 more) per 1,000 person-years. Sensitivity analyses showed little variation, except nonsignificantly increased risk with daily dosing and nonsignificantly decreased risk with alternate-day dosing. Risk of hemorrhagic stroke or other intracranial bleeding tended to be increased in primary prevention trials (OR, 1.27 [95% CI, 0.98 to 1.66]), corresponding to 0.11 more cases (95% CI, 0.28 more to 0.01 fewer) per 1,000 person-years, with statistically significant effects only when both primary and secondary prevention trials were combined (OR, 1.43 [95% CI, 1.12 to 1.81]). When restricted to all trials of 100 mg or less, the risk tended to decrease (OR, 1.32 [95% CI, 1.00 to 1.75]). Relatively rare events limited analyses. Data from cohort studies indicated that baseline rates of serious bleeding are higher than suggested from trials, and data from trials as well as cohorts indicated considerable baseline bleeding rate variation according to age, sex, diabetes, hypertension, and perhaps other selected cardiovascular risk factors. Comedications such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs appeared to modify baseline rates in cohort studies, as well as bleeding risks with low-dose ASA, although data adjusted for other risk factors suggested a more modest combined effect than earlier estimates. These and other bleeding risk factors could potentially have a large impact on the absolute number of excess cases of bleeding and therefore net benefit considerations. LIMITATIONS: Data on cancer benefits were limited by few trials-particularly of low-dose ASA and in CVD primary prevention populations-with adequate length of followup, which also limited analyses for cancer site-specific effects. Few analyses adjusted for combined impact of risk factors on bleeding risks; intracranial bleeding/hemorrhagic strokes are relatively rare and thus incompletely studied, and other potential risks of long-term ASA use are also understudied. Most currently available trial data are from older studies not specifically designed for outcomes beyond CVD and major bleeding, and not considering contemporary medications such as statins. In-progress research will be very valuable in updating these findings. CONCLUSIONS: Low-dose ASA use may eventually be shown to provide modest cancer mortality benefits in CVD primary prevention populations, but effects are not clearly established since current estimates are imprecise and relatively unstable. Modest reductions in all-cause mortality effect are more stable, but cannot be completely explained through cancer and/or CVD mortality reduction. Rates of serious bleeding, with and without ASA, are higher than previously suggested in clinical trial populations, and are very important when assessing the likely net benefit of low-dose ASA use as a chemopreventive agent in a more individualized or subpopulation-specific manner.

Wiffen, P. J., et al. (2016). "Oral morphine for cancer pain." Cochrane Database Syst Rev 4: Cd003868.
	BACKGROUND: This is the third updated version of a Cochrane review first published in Issue 4, 2003 of The Cochrane Library and first updated in 2007. Morphine has been used for many years to relieve pain. Oral morphine in either immediate release or modified release form remains the analgesic of choice for moderate or severe cancer pain. OBJECTIVES: To determine the efficacy of oral morphine in relieving cancer pain, and to assess the incidence and severity of adverse events. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2015, Issue 9); MEDLINE (1966 to October 2015); and EMBASE (1974 to October 2015). We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov (1 October 2015). SELECTION CRITERIA: Published randomised controlled trials (RCTs) using placebo or active comparators reporting on the analgesic effect of oral morphine in adults and children with cancer pain. We excluded trials with fewer than 10 participants. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One review author extracted data, which were checked by another review author. There were insufficient comparable data for meta-analysis to be undertaken or to produce numbers needed to treat (NNTs) for the analgesic effect. We extracted any available data on the number or proportion of participants with 'no worse than mild pain' or treatment success (very satisfied, or very good or excellent on patient global impression scales). MAIN RESULTS: We identified seven new studies in this update. We excluded six, and one study is ongoing so also not included in this update. This review contains a total of 62 included studies, with 4241 participants. Thirty-six studies used a cross-over design ranging from one to 15 days, with the greatest number (11) for seven days for each arm of the trial. Overall we judged the included studies to be at high risk of bias because the methods of randomisation and allocation concealment were poorly reported. The primary outcomes for this review were participant-reported pain and pain relief.Fifteen studies compared oral morphine modified release (Mm/r) preparations with morphine immediate release (MIR). Fourteen studies compared Mm/r in different strengths; six of these included 24-hour modified release products. Fifteen studies compared Mm/r with other opioids. Six studies compared MIR with other opioids. Two studies compared oral Mm/r with rectal Mm/r. Three studies compared MIR with MIR by a different route of administration. Two studies compared Mm/r with Mm/r at different times and two compared MIR with MIR given at a different time. One study was found comparing each of the following: Mm/r tablet with Mm/r suspension; Mm/r with non-opioids; MIR with non-opioids; and oral morphine with epidural morphine.In the previous update, a standard of 'no worse than mild pain' was set, equivalent to a score of 30/100 mm or less on a visual analogue pain intensity scale (VAS), or the equivalent in other pain scales. Eighteen studies achieved this level of pain relief on average, and no study reported that good levels of pain relief were not attained. Where results were reported for individual participants in 17 studies, 'no worse than mild pain' was achieved by 96% of participants (362/377), and an outcome equivalent to treatment success in 63% (400/638).Morphine is an effective analgesic for cancer pain. Pain relief did not differ between Mm/r and MIR. Modified release versions of morphine were effective for 12- or 24-hour dosing depending on the formulation. Daily doses in studies ranged from 25 mg to 2000 mg with an average of between 100 mg and 250 mg. Dose titration was undertaken with both instant release and modified release products. A small number of participants did not achieve adequate analgesia with morphine. Adverse events were common, predictable, and approximately 6% of participants discontinued treatment with morphine because of intolerable adverse events.The quality of the evidence is generally poor. Studies are old, often small, and were largely carried out for registration purposes and therefore were only designed to show equivalence between different formulations. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The conclusions have not changed for this update. The effectiveness of oral morphine has stood the test of time, but the randomised trial literature for morphine is small given the importance of this medicine. Most trials recruited fewer than 100 participants and did not provide appropriate data for meta-analysis. Only a few reported how many people had good pain relief, but where it was reported, over 90% had no worse than mild pain within a reasonably short time period. The review demonstrates the wide dose range of morphine used in studies, and that a small percentage of participants are unable to tolerate oral morphine. The review also shows the wide range of study designs, and inconsistency in cross-over designs. Trial design was frequently based on titration of morphine or comparator to achieve adequate analgesia, then crossing participants over in cross-over design studies. It was not clear if these trials were sufficiently powered to detect any clinical differences between formulations or comparator drugs. New studies added to the review for the previous update reinforced the view that it is possible to use modified release morphine to titrate to analgesic effect. There is qualitative evidence that oral morphine has much the same efficacy as other available opioids.

Willeit, P., et al. (2018). "Baseline and on-statin treatment lipoprotein(a) levels for prediction of cardiovascular events: individual patient-data meta-analysis of statin outcome trials." Lancet 392(10155): 1311-1320.
	BACKGROUND: Elevated lipoprotein(a) is a genetic risk factor for cardiovascular disease in general population studies. However, its contribution to risk for cardiovascular events in patients with established cardiovascular disease or on statin therapy is uncertain. METHODS: Patient-level data from seven randomised, placebo-controlled, statin outcomes trials were collated and harmonised to calculate hazard ratios (HRs) for cardiovascular events, defined as fatal or non-fatal coronary heart disease, stroke, or revascularisation procedures. HRs for cardiovascular events were estimated within each trial across predefined lipoprotein(a) groups (15 to <30 mg/dL, 30 to <50 mg/dL, and >/=50 mg/dL, vs <15 mg/dL), before pooling estimates using multivariate random-effects meta-analysis. FINDINGS: Analyses included data for 29 069 patients with repeat lipoprotein(a) measurements (mean age 62 years [SD 8]; 8064 [28%] women; 5751 events during 95 576 person-years at risk). Initiation of statin therapy reduced LDL cholesterol (mean change -39% [95% CI -43 to -35]) without a significant change in lipoprotein(a). Associations of baseline and on-statin treatment lipoprotein(a) with cardiovascular disease risk were approximately linear, with increased risk at lipoprotein(a) values of 30 mg/dL or greater for baseline lipoprotein(a) and 50 mg/dL or greater for on-statin lipoprotein(a). For baseline lipoprotein(a), HRs adjusted for age and sex (vs <15 mg/dL) were 1.04 (95% CI 0.91-1.18) for 15 mg/dL to less than 30 mg/dL, 1.11 (1.00-1.22) for 30 mg/dL to less than 50 mg/dL, and 1.31 (1.08-1.58) for 50 mg/dL or higher; respective HRs for on-statin lipoprotein(a) were 0.94 (0.81-1.10), 1.06 (0.94-1.21), and 1.43 (1.15-1.76). HRs were almost identical after further adjustment for previous cardiovascular disease, diabetes, smoking, systolic blood pressure, LDL cholesterol, and HDL cholesterol. The association of on-statin lipoprotein(a) with cardiovascular disease risk was stronger than for on-placebo lipoprotein(a) (interaction p=0.010) and was more pronounced at younger ages (interaction p=0.008) without effect-modification by any other patient-level or study-level characteristics. INTERPRETATION: In this individual-patient data meta-analysis of statin-treated patients, elevated baseline and on-statin lipoprotein(a) showed an independent approximately linear relation with cardiovascular disease risk. This study provides a rationale for testing the lipoprotein(a) lowering hypothesis in cardiovascular disease outcomes trials. FUNDING: Novartis Pharma AG.

Williams, S. B., et al. (2015). "Re: Richard J. Sylvester, Willem Oosterlinck, Sten Holmang, et al. Systematic Review and Individual Patient Data Meta-analysis of Randomized Trials Comparing a Single Immediate Instillation of Chemotherapy After Transurethral Resection with Transurethral Resection Alone in Patients with Stage pTa-pT1 Urothelial Carcinoma of the Bladder: Which Patients Benefit from the Instillation? Eur Urol. In press. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eururo.2015.05.050." Eur Urol 68(6): e127.
	
Winkelbeiner, S., et al. (2019). "Evaluation of Differences in Individual Treatment Response in Schizophrenia Spectrum Disorders: A Meta-analysis." JAMA Psychiatry.
	Importance: An assumption among clinicians and researchers is that patients with schizophrenia vary considerably in their response to antipsychotic drugs in randomized clinical trials (RCTs). Objective: To evaluate the overall variation in individual treatment response from random variation by comparing the variability between treatment and control groups. Data Sources: Cochrane Schizophrenia, MEDLINE/PubMed, Embase, PsycINFO, Cochrane CENTRAL, BIOSIS Previews, ClinicalTrials.gov, and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform from January 1, 1955, to December 31, 2016. Study Selection: Double-blind, placebo-controlled, RCTs of adults with a diagnosis of schizophrenia spectrum disorders and prescription for licensed antipsychotic drugs. Data Extraction and Synthesis: Means and SDs of the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale pretreatment and posttreatment outcome difference scores were extracted. Data quality and validity were ensured by following the PRISMA guidelines. Main Outcomes and Measures: The outcome measure was the overall variability ratio of treatment to control in a meta-analysis across RCTs. Individual variability ratios were weighted by the inverse-variance method and entered into a random-effects model. A personal element of response was hypothesized to be reflected by a substantial overall increase in variability in the treatment group compared with the control group. Results: An RCT was simulated, comprising 30 patients with schizophrenia randomized to either the treatment or the control group. The different components of variation in RCTs were illustrated with simulated data. In addition, we assessed the variability ratio in 52 RCTs involving 15360 patients with a schizophrenia or schizoaffective diagnosis. The variability was slightly lower in the treatment compared with the control group (variability ratio = 0.97; 95% CI, 0.95-0.99; P = .01). Conclusions and Relevance: In this study, no evidence was found in RCTs that antipsychotic drugs increased the outcome variance, suggesting no personal element of response to treatment but instead indicating that the variance was slightly lower in the treatment group than in the control group; although the study cannot rule out that subsets of patients respond differently to treatment, it suggests that the average treatment effect is a reasonable assumption for the individual patient.

Witlox, W. J. A., et al. (2018). "The Prevention of Brain Metastases in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer by Prophylactic Cranial Irradiation." Front Oncol 8: 241.
	Background: Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients frequently develop brain metastases (BM), even though the initial imaging with brain CT or MRI was negative. Stage III patients have the highest risk to develop BM, with an incidence of approximately 30%. BM can lead to neurocognitive disorders, loss of quality of life (QoL), and they are the most important factors influencing patient's overall survival (OS). Although a radical local treatment of BM may be possible with primary radiosurgery or after resection, the prognosis often remains poor. Preventing the development of BM through prophylactic cranial irradiation (PCI) may improve the outcome of these patients. Methods: Data from published randomized trials comparing PCI with non-PCI were sought using electronic database (PubMed) searching, hand searching, and by contacting experts. Trials were included if they considered a randomized comparison of PCI and non-PCI, enrolled NSCLC patients, excluded patients with recurrent or metastatic disease, and reported results on BM occurrence. Each randomized controlled trial (RCT) was assessed for methodological quality using the Cochrane collaboration's tool for the assessment of risk of bias. Study estimates were pooled using a fixed effects sample-weighted meta-analysis approach to calculate an overall estimate and 95% confidence interval (CI). Results on PCI-related toxicity, QoL, and OS were only reported descriptively. Results: Seven RCTs were included in the meta-analysis. In total, 1,462 patients were analyzed, including 717 patients who received PCI and 745 patients who did not. The risk of developing BM was significantly decreased through PCI (13% reduction, RR 0.33; 95% CI 0.22-0.45). PCI-related toxicity and QoL data were limited. Acute toxicity mostly included fatigue, skin-related toxicity, and nausea or vomiting. Late toxicities such as headache, dyspnea, lethargy, and low grade cognitive impairments were also reported in some of the included RCTs. Results on OS were inconclusive. Conclusion: The risk of developing BM was reduced in patients who received PCI compared to patients who did not. To implement PCI as the standard treatment for patients with NSCLC, the impact of PCI-related toxicity on QoL should be further investigated, as well as long-term OS. A future individual patient data meta-analysis could produce definitive answers to this clinical question.

Wong, G., et al. (2016). "Chronic kidney disease and the risk of cancer: an individual patient data meta-analysis of 32,057 participants from six prospective studies." BMC Cancer 16: 488.
	BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is an established risk factor for cardiovascular disease but the relevance of reduced kidney function to cancer risk is uncertain. METHODS: Individual patient data were collected from six studies (32,057 participants); including one population-based cohort and five randomized controlled trials. Participants were grouped into one of five CKD categories (estimated glomerular filtration rate [eGFR] >/=75 mL/min/1.73 m(2); eGFR >/=60 to <75 mL/min/1.73 m(2); eGFR >/=45 to <60 mL/min/1.73 m(2); eGFR <45 mL/min/1.73 m(2); on dialysis). Stratified Cox regression was used to assess the impact of CKD category on cancer incidence and cancer death. RESULTS: Over a follow-up period of 170,000 person-years (mean follow-up among survivors 5.6 years), 2626 participants developed cancer and 1095 participants died from cancer. Overall, there was no significant association between CKD category and cancer incidence or death. As compared with the reference group with eGFR >/=75 mL/min/1.73 m(2), adjusted hazard ratio (HR) estimates for each category of renal function, in descending order, were: 0.98 (95 % CI 0.87-1.10), 0.99 (0.88-1.13), 1.01 (0.84-1.22) and 1.24 (0.97-1.58) for cancer incidence, and 1.03 (95 % CI 0.86-1.24), 0.95 (0.78-1.16), 1.00 (0.76-1.33), and 1.58 (1.09-2.30) for cancer mortality. Among dialysis patients, there was an excess risk of cancers of the urinary tract (adjusted HR: 2.34; 95 % CI 1.10-4.98) and endocrine cancers (11.65; 95 % CI: 1.30-104.12), and an excess risk of death from digestive tract cancers (2.11; 95 % CI: 1.13-3.99), but a reduced risk of prostate cancers (0.38; 95 % CI: 0.18-0.83). CONCLUSIONS: Whilst no association between reduced renal function and the overall risk of cancer was observed, there was evidence among dialysis patients that the risk of cancer was increased (urinary tract, endocrine and digestive tract) or decreased (prostate) at specific sites. Larger studies are needed to characterise these site-specific associations and to identify their pathogenesis.

Wopereis, D. M., et al. (2018). "The Relation Between Thyroid Function and Anemia: A Pooled Analysis of Individual Participant Data." J Clin Endocrinol Metab 103(10): 3658-3667.
	Context: Anemia and thyroid dysfunction often co-occur, and both increase with age. Human data on relationships between thyroid disease and anemia are scarce. Objective: To investigate the cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between clinical thyroid status and anemia. Design: Individual participant data meta-analysis. Setting: Sixteen cohorts participating in the Thyroid Studies Collaboration (n = 42,162). Main Outcome Measures: Primary outcome measure was anemia (hemoglobin <130 g/L in men and <120 g/L in women). Results: Cross-sectionally, participants with abnormal thyroid status had an increased risk of having anemia compared with euthyroid participants [overt hypothyroidism, pooled OR 1.84 (95% CI 1.35 to 2.50), subclinical hypothyroidism 1.21 (1.02 to 1.43), subclinical hyperthyroidism 1.27 (1.03 to 1.57), and overt hyperthyroidism 1.69 (1.00 to 2.87)]. Hemoglobin levels were lower in all groups compared with participants with euthyroidism. In the longitudinal analyses (n = 25,466 from 14 cohorts), the pooled hazard ratio for the risk of development of anemia was 1.38 (95% CI 0.86 to 2.20) for overt hypothyroidism, 1.18 (1.00 to 1.38) for subclinical hypothyroidism, 1.15 (0.94 to 1.42) for subclinical hyperthyroidism, and 1.47 (0.91 to 2.38) for overt hyperthyroidism. Sensitivity analyses excluding thyroid medication or high levels of C-reactive protein yielded similar results. No differences in mean annual change in hemoglobin levels were observed between the thyroid hormone status groups. Conclusion: Higher odds of having anemia were observed in participants with both hypothyroid function and hyperthyroid function. In addition, reduced thyroid function at baseline showed a trend of increased risk of developing anemia during follow-up. It remains to be assessed in a randomized controlled trial whether treatment is effective in reducing anemia.

Xie, W., et al. (2019). "A Systematic Review and Recommendation for Reporting of Surrogate Endpoint Evaluation Using Meta-analyses." JNCI Cancer Spectr 3(1): pkz002.
	Background: Meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) has been widely conducted for the evaluation of surrogate endpoints in oncology, but little attention has been given to the adequacy of reporting and interpretation. This review evaluated the reporting quality of published meta-analyses on surrogacy evaluation and developed recommendations for future reporting. Methods: We searched PubMed through August 2017 to identify studies that evaluated surrogate endpoints using the meta-analyses of RCTs in oncology. Both individual patient data (IPD) and aggregate data (AD) meta-analyses were included for the review. Results: Eighty meta-analyses were identified: 22 used IPD and 58 used AD from multiple RCTs. We observed variability and reporting deficiencies in both IPD and AD meta-analyses, especially on reporting of trial selection, endpoint definition, study and patient characteristics for included RCTs, and important statistical methods and results. Based on these findings, we proposed a checklist and recommendations to improve completeness, consistency, and transparency of reports of meta-analytic surrogacy evaluation. We highlighted key aspects of the design and analysis of surrogate endpoints and presented explanations and rationale why these items should be clearly reported in surrogacy evaluation. Conclusions: Our reporting of surrogate endpoint evaluation using meta-analyses (ReSEEM) guidelines and recommendations will improve the quality in reporting and facilitate the interpretation and reproducibility of meta-analytic surrogacy evaluation. Also, they should help promote greater methodological consistency and could also serve as an evaluation tool in the peer review process for assessing surrogacy research.

Xie, W., et al. (2017). "Metastasis-Free Survival Is a Strong Surrogate of Overall Survival in Localized Prostate Cancer." J Clin Oncol 35(27): 3097-3104.
	Purpose Adjuvant therapy for intermediate-risk and high-risk localized prostate cancer decreases the number of deaths from this disease. Surrogates for overall survival (OS) could expedite the evaluation of new adjuvant therapies. Methods By June 2013, 102 completed or ongoing randomized trials were identified and individual patient data were collected from 28 trials with 28,905 patients. Disease-free survival (DFS) and metastasis-free survival (MFS) were determined for 21,140 patients from 24 trials and 12,712 patients from 19 trials, respectively. We evaluated the surrogacy of DFS and MFS for OS by using a two-stage meta-analytic validation model by determining the correlation of an intermediate clinical end point with OS and the correlation of treatment effects on both the intermediate clinical end point and OS. Results Trials enrolled patients from 1987 to 2011. After a median follow-up of 10 years, 45% of 21,140 men and 45% of 12,712 men experienced a DFS and MFS event, respectively. For DFS and MFS, 61% and 90% of the patients, respectively, were from radiation trials, and 63% and 66%, respectively, had high-risk disease. At the patient level, Kendall's tau correlation with OS was 0.85 and 0.91 for DFS and MFS, respectively. At the trial level, R(2) was 0.86 (95% CI, 0.78 to 0.90) and 0.83 (95% CI, 0.71 to 0.88) from weighted linear regression of 8-year OS rates versus 5-year DFS and MFS rates, respectively. Treatment effects-measured by log hazard ratios-for the surrogates and OS were well correlated ( R(2), 0.73 [95% CI, 0.53 to 0.82] for DFS and 0.92 [95% CI, 0.81 to 0.95] for MFS). Conclusion MFS is a strong surrogate for OS for localized prostate cancer that is associated with a significant risk of death from prostate cancer.

Xue, E. Z., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of ivabradine for heart failure: A protocol for a systematic review of randomized controlled trial." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(14): e15075.
	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical trials have reported that ivabradine can effectively treat heart failure (HF). However, no systematic review has explored its efficacy and safety for HF. This systematic review will aim to evaluate the efficacy and safety of ivabradine for the treatment of patients with HF. METHODS: We will search the literature from the following electronic databases from inception to the January 31, 2019: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, EMBASE, MEDILINE, Web of Science, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database, China National Knowledge Infrastructure, VIP Information, and Wanfang Data. All randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of ivabradine for HF will be fully considered for inclusion without any restrictions. Additionally, grey literature including clinical trial registries, dissertations, and reference lists of included studies, conference abstracts will also be searched. Two researchers will review these literatures, extract data, and assess risk of bias of included RCTs separately. Data will be pooled by either fixed-effects model or random-effects model, and meta-analysis will be conducted if it is appropriate. RESULTS: The primary outcome is all-cause mortality. The secondary outcomes comprise of change in body weight, urine output, change in serum sodium, and all adverse events. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study will summary provide up-to-dated evidence for assessing the efficacy and safety of ivabradine for HF. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: It is not necessary to acquire ethical approval for this systematic review, because no individual patient data will be used in this study. The results of this systematic review will be published through peer-reviewed journals. SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42019120814.

Yan, X., et al. (2019). "Effects of physical exercises on semen quality and reproductive outcomes in male infertility: A protocol for systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(41): e17494.
	BACKGROUND: Infertility has troubled the world's 186 million people, and male infertility accounts for more than half. The literature of physical exercise related to semen quality has shown inconsistent results, and there is currently no systematic review to evaluate the effects of exercise on reproductive outcomes in male infertility patients. This study aims to assessing the effects of exercise interventions based on randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on semen quality and reproductive outcomes in male infertility. METHODS: English and Chinese literature about physical exercise treatment for male infertility published before July 31, 2019 will be systematic searched in PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, Cochrane Library, Open Grey, Clinicaltrials.gov, Chinese Clinical Trial Registry, WANFANG, VIP Chinese Science and Technology Journal Database, CNKI, Chinese biomedical document service system (SinoMed). Only RCTs of patients with male infertility will be included. Literature screening, data extraction, and the assessment of risk of bias will be independently conducted by 2 reviewers, and the 3rd reviewer will be consulted if any different opinions existed. Live-birth rate, pregnancy rate, adverse events (including miscarriage), sperm concentration, progressive motility, sperm morphology, and sperm DNA fragmentation will be evaluated. Systematic review and meta-analysis will be produced by RevMan 5.3 and Stata 14.0. This protocol reported in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-analysis Protocols (PRISMA-P) statement, and we will report the systematic review by following the PRISMA statement. CONCLUSION AND DISSEMINATION: We will assess the efficacy and safety of physical exercise on semen quality and reproductive outcomes in infertile men. The findings will be published in a peer-reviewed journal to provide evidence-based medical evidence for clinical decision making and the patient's lifestyle guidance. REGISTRATION INFORMATION: PROSPERO CRD42019140294.

Yancey, S. W., et al. (2017). "Meta-analysis of asthma-related hospitalization in mepolizumab studies of severe eosinophilic asthma." J Allergy Clin Immunol 139(4): 1167-1175.e1162.
	BACKGROUND: Studies show that mepolizumab can reduce the frequency of clinically significant exacerbations in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma, compared with placebo. However, important events such as hospitalizations and emergency room visits are rare and difficult to characterize in single studies. OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare hospitalization or hospitalization and/or emergency room visit rates in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma treated with mepolizumab or placebo in addition to standard of care for at least 24 weeks. METHODS: This study was conducted and reported in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses statement. PubMed and the GSK Clinical Study Register were searched for suitable studies. The primary end points were the rate of exacerbations requiring hospitalization and the rate of exacerbations requiring hospitalization/emergency room visit. The proportion of patients with 1 or more event was also assessed. All mepolizumab doses were combined and individual patient-level data were analyzed. RESULTS: Four studies (n = 1388) were eligible for inclusion. Mepolizumab significantly reduced the rate of exacerbations requiring hospitalization (relative rate, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.30-0.80; P = .004) and hospitalization/emergency room visit (relative rate, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.33-0.73; P < .001) versus placebo. Significant reductions of 45% and 38% were also observed for the proportion of patients experiencing 1 or more hospitalization and hospitalization and/or emergency room visit, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Mepolizumab approximately halved exacerbations requiring hospitalization and/or emergency room visits compared with placebo in patients with severe eosinophilic asthma. This treatment addresses a key outcome in a patient population with a high unmet need (GSK Study 204664).

Yu, S., et al. (2016). "Erlotinib-based targeted dual agent versus erlotinib alone in previously treated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis of 13 randomized controlled trials." Curr Med Res Opin 32(12): 1927-1934.
	OBJECTIVES: To compare the effects of an erlotinib-based targeted dual agent with erlotinib alone in previously treated patients with advanced non-small lung cancer (NSCLC). PATIENTS AND METHODS: The PubMed and Embase databases and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials were searched for publications between January 2005 and March 2016. Hazard ratios (HRs) with their 95% confidence intervals (CIs), or data for calculating HRs with 95% CIs were derived. Overall survival (OS), progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR), disease control rate (DCR), and toxicity were assessed. RESULTS: Thirteen trials with a total of 4509 patients were included in this meta-analysis. Compared with erlotinib alone, combination therapy showed no improvement in OS (HR = 0.95; 95% CI, 0.89-1.02; P = .132) though significantly prolonged PFS (HR = 0.82; 95% CI, 0.75-0.90; P < .001). Combination therapy significantly increased ORR (RR = 1.32; 95% CI, 1.09-1.60; P = .005) and DCR (RR = 1.26; 95% CI, 1.17-1.36, P < .001). Sub-analysis assessment failed to identify any sub-groups which could benefit from combination therapy in terms of OS. Combination therapy was associated with more grade 3 or higher toxic effects (RR = 1.54; 95% CI, 1.22-1.95; P < .001). Patients treated with combination therapy had more grade 3 or greater fatigue (RR = 1.49; 95% CI, 1.16-1.91; P = .002), but did not develop more diarrhea (RR = 2.02; 95% CI, 0.86-4.77; P = .107) or rash (RR = 1.29, 95% CI, 0.90-1.85; P = .172). This study had limitations about heterogeneities among the included trials, and the analysis was not based on individual patient data. CONCLUSIONS: Compared with erlotinib alone, the erlotinib-based targeted dual agent showed a minimal magnitude of improvement in PFS but did not improve OS. The role of erlotinib-based combinations in previously treated patients with NSCLC seemed insignificant.

Yu, S. P., et al. (2019). "Predictors of placebo response to local (intra-articular) therapy in osteoarthritis: an individual patient data meta-analysis protocol." BMJ Open 9(5): e027372.
	INTRODUCTION: Osteoarthritis (OA) is a highly prevalent and disabling condition with limited safe and effective treatment options. Intra-articular therapies are increasingly being used, however whether the effect of these agents is due to active treatment or placebo remains unclear. As the placebo response can be attributed to multiple factors, assessment of the placebo response using individual patient data (IPD) meta-analysis will give insight into the different modifiers of response to placebo. The aim of this IPD meta-analysis is to investigate the predictors of placebo response in intra-articular injection trials in OA. IPD meta-analysis is considered to be superior to conventional meta-analysis, as it combines multiple trial data, facilitates the standardisation of analyses across different studies and allows measuring derivation of the desired information. METHOD AND ANALYSIS: A systematic literature search will be conducted for randomised clinical trials comparing corticosteroid and viscosupplementation/hyaluronic acid intra-articular injections with placebo for knee and hip OA. Pubmed (Medline), EMBASE, Web of Science, Cochrane Central and SCOPUS will be searched from inception to September 2018. Corresponding authors of the original trials will be contacted to obtain IPD. Risk of bias will be assessed using the Cochrane Collaboration's tool. The primary outcome will be change in pain from baseline. Secondary outcomes will be change in function and patient's global assessment. Potential predictors of placebo response assessed will include patient's characteristics, pain mechanism characteristics, radiographic severity, pain severity, intervention characteristics and trial design characteristics. A multilevel logistic regression analyses will be applied. Results will be reported using the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic review and Meta-Analysis -IPD guidelines. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study does not include identifiable data and ethical approval was obtained by the original investigators. Results of the IPD meta-analysis will be disseminated for publication in peer-reviewed journals and conference presentations. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42018095188.

Zhang, Q., et al. (2017). "Efficacy of vasopressin-epinephrine compared to epinephrine alone for out of hospital cardiac arrest patients: A systematic review and meta-analysis." Am J Emerg Med 35(10): 1555-1560.
	OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to conduct a meta-analysis to evaluate the efficacy of vasopressin-epinephrine compared to epinephrine alone in patients who suffered out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). METHODS: Relevant studies up to February 2017 were identified by searching in PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, Wanfang for randomized controlled trials(RCTs) assigning adults with cardiac arrest to treatment with vasopressin-epinephrine (VEgroup) vs adrenaline (epinephrine) alone (E group). The outcome point was return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) for patients suffering from OHCA. Heterogeneity, subgroup analysis, sensitivity analysis and publication bias were explored. RESULTS: Individual patient data were obtained from 5047 participants who experienced OHCA in nine studies. Odds ratios (ORs) were calculated using a random-effects model and results suggested that vasopressin-epinephrine was associated with higher rate of ROSC (OR=1.67, 95% CI=1.13-2.49, P<0.00001, and total I(2)=83%). Subgroup showed that vasopressin-epinephrine has a significant association with improvements in ROSC for patients from Asia (OR=3.30, 95% CI=1.30-7.88); but for patients from other regions, there was no difference between vasopressin-epinephrine and epinephrine alone (OR=1.07, 95% CI=0.72-1.61). CONCLUSION: According to the pooled results of the subgroup, combination of vasopressin and adrenaline can improve ROSC of OHCA from Asia, but patients from other regions who suffered from OHCA cannot benefit from combination of vasopressin and epinephrine.

Zhang, Y., et al. (2018). "Nomogram to predict the benefit of additional induction chemotherapy to concurrent chemoradiotherapy in locoregionally advanced nasopharyngeal carcinoma: Analysis of a multicenter, phase III randomized trial." Radiother Oncol 129(1): 18-22.
	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Recent clinical trials and network meta-analysis have suggested that the addition of induction chemotherapy (IC) to concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT) could improve survival in locoregionally advanced NPC (LANPC). We aimed to develop a nomogram to estimate the benefit of IC for individual patients based on the data from a multicenter, randomized, phase III trial (NCT01245959) comparing IC plus CCRT with CCRT alone. PARTICIPANTS AND METHODS: This study analyzed all 480 patients enrolled in the original trial. A nomogram was developed to predict 3-year failure-free survival (FFS) with or without IC. RESULTS: With a median follow-up of 45months, the 3-year FFS rates were 80.3% and 72.4% in the IC plus CCRT group and CCRT group, respectively (P=0.034). In multivariate analysis, T category, N category and treatment group were predictive of FFS and were incorporated into the nomogram. Gender was also included due to its clinical importance. This nomogram predicted that the magnitude of benefit from IC could vary significantly. CONCLUSION: We developed a convenient nomogram to estimate the benefit of IC for individual patients with LANPC. This tool can serve as a catalyst of individual treatment discussions and facilitator of informed decision-making.

Zhang, Y., et al. (2017). "The metabolic side effects of 12 antipsychotic drugs used for the treatment of schizophrenia on glucose: a network meta-analysis." BMC Psychiatry 17(1): 373.
	BACKGROUND: Antipsychotics have serious metabolic side effects on blood glucose. However, the comparative influence of these drugs on blood glucose levels has not been comprehensively evaluated. We conducted a network meta-analysis to create a hierarchy of the side effects of 12 antipsychotic drugs on changes in blood glucose levels. METHODS: A systematic search of the PubMed, EMBASE and Cochrane databases (last search June 2016) was conducted to identify studies that reported randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing changes in blood glucose levels between patients receiving one of 12 antipsychotic drugs or a placebo for the treatment of schizophrenia or related disorders. The studies we searched were limited to those published in English. Two reviewers independently extracted data. The primary outcome of interest was changes in fasting glucose levels. RESULTS: We included 47 studies with 114 relevant arms. Of the antipsychotic drugs, only olanzapine was associated with significantly increased glucose levels compared to a placebo (mean difference (MD) = 3.95, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.14 to 7.76). Moreover, olanzapine was associated with a significantly greater change in the glucose levels than ziprasidone (MD = 5.51, 95% CI = 1.62 to 9.39), lurasidone (MD = 5.58, 95% CI = 0.53 to 10.64) or risperidone (MD = 3.05, 95% CI = 0.87 to 5.22). Ziprasidone and lurasidone were associated with minimal glucose changes compared to the other antipsychotics. CONCLUSIONS: Olanzapine was associated with a significantly greater change in blood glucose levels than ziprasidone, lurasidone, risperidone or placebo treatment. The application of a hierarchy of glucose metabolism-related side effects may help clinicians tailor the choice of antipsychotic drug to meet the needs of individual patients.

Zhou, X., et al. (2018). "Comparative efficacy and tolerability of new-generation antidepressants for major depressive disorder in children and adolescents: protocol of an individual patient data meta-analysis." BMJ Open 8(1): e018357.
	INTRODUCTION: Although previous conventional meta-analyses and network meta-analyses have provided some important findings about pharmacological treatments for children and adolescents with depressive disorders in the past decades, several questions still remain unsolved by the aggregate data from those meta-analyses. Individual participant data meta-analysis (IPD-MA) enables exploration of the impacts of individual characteristics on treatment effects, allowing matching of treatments to specific subgroups of patients. We will perform an IPD-MA to assess the efficacy and tolerability of new-generation antidepressants for major depressive disorder in children and adolescents. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: We will systematically search for all double-blind randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that have compared any new-generation antidepressant with placebo for the acute treatment of major depressive disorder in children and adolescents, in the following databases: PubMed, EMBASE, the Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, Web of Science, CINAHL, LILACS and ProQuest Dissertations. We will contact all corresponding authors of included RCTs and ask for their cooperation in this project by providing individual participant data from the original trials. The primary outcomes will include efficacy, measured as the mean change of depression symptoms by Children's Depression Rating Scale Revised (CDRS-R), and tolerability, measured as the proportion of patients who withdrew from the trials early due to adverse effects. The secondary outcomes will include response rates, remission rates, deterioration rate, all-cause discontinuation, suicidal-related outcomes and global functioning outcome. Using the raw de-identified study data, we will use mixed-effects logistic and linear regression models to perform the IPD-MAs. The risk of bias of included studies will be assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. We will also detect the publication bias and effects of non-participation of eligible studies. DISSEMINATION: Ethical approval is not required given that informed consent has already been obtained from the patients by the trial investigators before the included trials were conducted. This study may have considerable implications for practice and help improve patient care. PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42016051657.

Zhu, Z. R., et al. (2019). "Efficacy of furosemide for treatment of liver cirrhosis: A systematic review protocol of randomized controlled trial." Medicine (Baltimore) 98(16): e15300.
	BACKGROUND: Previous clinical studies have reported that furosemide can be used to treat liver cirrhosis (LC) effectively. However, no study systematically explored this issue. This systematic review aims to investigate the efficacy and safety of furosemide for treatment of LC. METHODS: This study will be conducted through searching the following literature sources from their inception to February 28, 2019 without any language limitations: PUBMED, EMBASE, PsycINFO, Web of Science, Scopus, OpenGrey, Cochrane Library, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database, and Chinese Biomedical Literature Database. In addition, reference lists of relevant reviews and websites of clinical trial registry will also be searched. Only randomized controlled trials of furosemide for treatment of LC will be included in this study. Two reviewers will independently select studies, collect data, and determine risk of bias. RevMan 5.3 software will be used to pool the data and to conduct meta-analysis if sufficient studies will be included with acceptable heterogeneity. RESULTS: This study will investigate the efficacy and safety of furosemide for LC by the assessment of primary and secondary outcomes. The primary outcome includes mortality rate. The secondary outcomes consist of response rate, overall survival, body weight, urinary volume, quality of life, as measured by any relevant scales, and adverse events. CONCLUSION: The results of this study may provide summarized evidence of furosemide for the treatment of LC. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: No individual patient data will be used in this study, thus no ethics approval is needed. The findings of this study will be published in peer-reviewed journals.

Zou, Z., et al. (2016). "Perioperative angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers for preventing mortality and morbidity in adults." Cochrane Database Syst Rev(1): Cd009210.
	BACKGROUND: Perioperative hypertension requires careful management. Angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) or angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs) have shown efficacy in treating hypertension associated with surgery. However, there is lack of consensus about whether they can prevent mortality and morbidity. OBJECTIVES: To systematically assess the benefits and harms of administration of ACEIs or ARBs perioperatively for the prevention of mortality and morbidity in adults (aged 18 years and above) undergoing any type of surgery under general anaesthesia. SEARCH METHODS: We searched the current issue of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2014, Issue 12), Ovid MEDLINE (1966 to 8 December 2014), EMBASE (1980 to 8 December 2014), and references of the retrieved randomized trials, meta-analyses, and systematic reviews. SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing perioperative administration of ACEIs or ARBs with placebo in adults (aged 18 years and above) undergoing any type of surgery under general anaesthesia. We excluded studies in which participants underwent procedures that required local anaesthesia only, or participants who had already been on ACEIs or ARBs. DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently performed study selection, assessed the risk of bias, and extracted data. We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. MAIN RESULTS: We included seven RCTs with a total of 571 participants in the review. Two of the seven trials involved 36 participants undergoing non-cardiac vascular surgery (infrarenal aortic surgery), and five involved 535 participants undergoing cardiac surgery, including valvular surgery, coronary artery bypass surgery, and cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. The intervention was started from 11 days to 25 minutes before surgery in six trials and during surgery in one trial. We considered all seven RCTs to carry a high risk of bias. The effects of ACEIs or ARBs on perioperative mortality and acute myocardial infarction were uncertain because the quality of the evidence was very low. The risk of death was 2.7% in the ACEIs or ARBs group and 1.6% in the placebo group (risk ratio (RR) 1.61; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.44 to 5.85). The risk of acute myocardial infarction was 1.7% in the ACEIs or ARBs group and 3.0% in the placebo group (RR 0.55; 95% CI 0.14 to 2.26). ACEIs or ARBs may improve congestive heart failure (cardiac index) perioperatively (mean difference (MD) -0.60; 95% CI -0.70 to -0.50, very low-quality evidence). In terms of rate of complications, there was no difference in perioperative cerebrovascular complications (RR 0.48; 95% CI 0.18 to 1.28, very low-quality evidence) and hypotension (RR 1.95; 95% CI 0.86 to 4.41, very low-quality evidence). Cardiac surgery-related renal failure was not reported. ACEIs or ARBs were associated with shortened length of hospital stay (MD -0.54; 95% CI -0.93 to -0.16, P value = 0.005, very low-quality evidence). These findings should be interpreted cautiously due to likely confounding by the clinical backgrounds of the participants. ACEIs or ARBs may shorten the length of hospital stay, (MD -0.54; 95% CI -0.93 to -0.16, very low-quality evidence) Two studies reported adverse events, and there was no evidence of a difference between the ACEIs or ARBs and control groups. AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Overall, this review did not find evidence to support that perioperative ACEIs or ARBs can prevent mortality, morbidity, and complications (hypotension, perioperative cerebrovascular complications, and cardiac surgery-related renal failure). We found no evidence showing that the use of these drugs may reduce the rate of acute myocardial infarction. However, ACEIs or ARBs may increase cardiac output perioperatively. Due to the low and very low methodology quality, high risk of bias, and lack of power of the included studies, the true effect may be substantially different from the observed estimates. Perioperative (mainly elective cardiac surgery, according to included studies) initiation of ACEIs or ARBs therapy should be individualized.

